We're probably in the sort of global
relief rally.
>> Markets are pricing in a resolution.
Equity markets have started living
[music] in the future.
>> This type of environment, you just stay
in large caps.
>> There is a short-term look-through in
the market. That's what keeps the stock
market going.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from the nation's capital this
morning. Good morning, good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday following a week full of
verbal intervention.
Iran is in very bad shape.
I think they're very desperate. They
want to work a deal. They would like to
work a deal. They're willing to do
things today that they weren't willing
to do 2 months ago.
>> No nuclear weapons. Free oil, free
almost straight. Everything will be
nice.
The president claiming Iran is making
key concessions, helping to send equity
markets to back-to-back record highs,
even as some foreign leaders are
indicating a peace deal could take
[music] 6 months to be fully agreed.
>> Yeah, here's the issue. We've seen a
complete reversal, a violent reversal in
equity markets [music] with one of the
fastest rebounds ever from some of the
lows. And yet, yes, there are some
caveats. Like, it is going to be
difficult to discuss the nuclear dust as
well as reopening the Strait of Hormuz
in any kind of feasible long-term way.
It doesn't seem to matter because
ultimately people see that there is a
desire to prolong the ceasefire. [music]
At this point, talks between the US and
Iran are focused on simply extending the
ceasefire out to those 6 months to get
some sort of longer-lasting agreement.
>> Back-to-back record highs in the equity
market heading towards 3 weeks of gains
on the S&P 500 for the first time so far
this year, encouraged by the words of
the president. The claim, a key claim,
claiming that Iran is making key
concessions. We've yet to see that come
from Iran, and that is a key sticking
point.
>> We've yet to see that come from Iran.
Reuters has some reporting that [music]
actually Iranian officials told them
that maybe it won't be a full-on deal
that you can expect before the ceasefire
ends or within the next few weeks if the
ceasefire is extended, but something
more of a memorandum of an understanding
to then get to longer-term peace.
[music] The president though is saying
they're making key concessions. I mean,
he told me weeks ago on the phone that
they're ready to settle. At the [music]
moment, there is no deal, but the bombs
have stopped. The key issue for this
administration, as well as France and
the UK who are hosting this conference,
is reopening [music] the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> Let's weigh through the stock moves that
we've seen over the last 1, 2 weeks. The
move on the Nasdaq, 12 days of gains on
the Nasdaq 100. Looking at energy stocks
down 8% [music] through April. Consumer
discretionary, up around 10% through
April. That's the big turnaround there,
but within tech, we see semis absolutely
rip. This week, Microsoft is on course
for its biggest weekly gain [music] in
more than a decade. And the most
followed
ETF software index that a lot of people
were shaken up by several months back.
I'll tell you what, the week that that's
had, that week for this particular
index, that index has been on fire.
>> Yeah, and some of the last time that
we've seen moves like this is going back
to the dot-com bubble, which is one
reason [music] why people are getting a
little concerned. Because what you're
seeing is winners and losers, and on the
whole, you're getting huge dispersion
within the tech trade. At the same
[music] time, yes, you are getting a
number that are completely ripping.
Nonetheless, there are winners and
losers, and you can see the shaking out
with software. The likes of software
really kind of struggling [music]
in certain pockets even as others get
that rebound. So, when you take a look
at this, is this a healthy rebound, or
does this indicate some sort of blow-off
top where there's a lot of concentration
risk [music] in a couple of key names?
>> Equity futures on the S&P so far this
morning, positive by a quarter of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research with
stocks on course for a third straight
week of gains. We'll speak to Gregory
Allen of CSIS on why Anthropic's new AI
model is a watershed moment. And we'll
speak to the Egyptian Trade Minister,
Mohamed Farid Salaheddin, on the
economic impact of the war on the Middle
East. We begin this hour with stocks
holding steady after reaching fresh
record highs. Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research writing equity investors
certainly have reason for optimism. Ed
joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program. Let's get to those reasons.
What are they?
Well, first and foremost
is the Middle East situation has
calmed down. The war isn't over. There's
a ceasefire. It may may or may not take
6 months to get a full peace agreement,
but the main point as you said is the
bombs aren't dropping
and things are calming down. Then of
course secondly, earnings have been on
fire. The we've had a earnings led
melt up in the stock market for a while
actually and
as the war
occurred, the earnings expectations
continued to increase at a faster pace.
So, they they analysts didn't get the
war memo and they didn't get any
feedback from the companies they follow
that this is
a concern for earnings
anytime soon.
Ed, we're getting some feedback from the
equity markets, some clear feedback. The
enthusiasm for tech again is
overwhelming. The 12-day run on the
Nasdaq 100. Within tech, it's not just
chips. We're seeing the likes of
Microsoft, which at one point was really
really struggling, have a fantastic week
as well. Ed, what's behind that renewed
enthusiasm for that tech trade?
Well, in two words
or three words, the roaring 2020s. Um
you know, there's a lot of similarities
between the current decade and the
1920s. The big one is technologically
led productivity gains, which increases
the
purchasing power of consumers. We're
seeing that.
It increases the growth rate of the
economy. I think
we we've we saw that most of last year.
I think we had some weakness in the
fourth and first quarters. I blame that
on the weather. So, I expect to see
Remember I told you Gardner from being
there? I I I
that in the spring there will be growth.
I think we're going to see a tremendous
growth and and really the economy's
resilience has been
phenomenal and therefore earnings have
been phenomenal.
Does this type of performance in markets
give you comfort or give you pause given
the incredible volatility, the whipsaw,
the biggest shift from oversold to
overbought 18-day kind of round trip
going back to 2016? I mean, doesn't it
scream of something unstable rather than
a sense of calm strength?
I'm pretty calm about it all. I'm I'm
and I'm comfortable with the way the
market's
behaving
because what it does is it
kind of uh
tests out the idea that there's trouble
ahead and so we saw that with artificial
intelligence. We had a few corrections
in in that area, but yet you know, for
all the talk about an AI bubble
bursting, that's just not not occurring.
More money is being spent not just by
the hyperscalers, but by people like me
who you know, signing up for Claude and
ChatGPT. I mean, I'm using all the
models. Some of them do do some things
better than others. Uh but I find myself
using artificial intelligence all day as
a research assistant. Now we're creating
some AI tools to help us do our job. So
it's increased our productivity. So from
from my perspective, it's it's all good.
You're going to make me sound like a
Debbie Downer, but the more you say it's
all good, the more I'm going to try to
poke holes in it. And at this point, the
other hole that people are trying to
poke is can you have two things at the
same time? The idea that earnings are
coming in better than expected, an
economy that's more robust than
expected, and commodity prices that are
higher than expected without some sort
of commensurate inflation that could
potentially curtail some of this
enthusiasm.
Well, I I I think everybody is expecting
that inflation will be picking up here
in the next a months, but uh you know,
we had that inflation burst uh surge, I
should say, in 2021-2022,
a lot of that uh was uh first led by
supply chain uh disruptions, which uh
put a lot of upward pressure,
particularly on durable goods prices. Uh
then Russia invaded Ukraine, and so we
got on top of that, we've got a spike in
oil prices. Uh this time around, uh
we're saying that the impact of last
year's tariffs is probably wearing off.
Uh we're saying that the home ownership
uh
inflation is uh the shelter inflation
component of consumer price inflation is
coming down uh sharply. Uh the the um uh
the the price of oil um looks like it's
doing another one of these short-term
spikes, reminiscent of 2022, without the
the pass-through that we saw in 2022.
Ed, when it comes to the stock market,
how much are you feeling calm, and how
much are the recent gains because of
verbal intervention from the White
House?
Well, obviously that that had a a big
impact. Um you know, a lot of the
concerns that people had that that
caused the market to go down by by 9%
from uh
what was it? From January 27th uh down
to uh
March 30th, um
those concerns have been uh around for a
few weeks. People kind of kicked the
tires and see and realized that there's
no flat there. The The tires are still
inflated, and cars are still moving
forward. Um and I think that's a
reasonable analogy for what we're seeing
here in the market is
uh the AI concerns created buying
opportunities. And by the way, uh
everybody knows now that geopolitical
crises create buying opportunities. So,
we've got this annoying situation where
you don't get a chance to buy for very
long. You really have to jump in and
just take buy on the dip. Otherwise,
everybody's buying uh once they figure,
you know, this this let's look through
this geopolitical crisis and we're
getting some really good bargains here.
And one of the reasons we're having good
bargains is PEs came down not just
because you know, valuations crash, but
because earnings really took took off.
So
um
Usually you buy high PEs expecting down
the road you'll get better earnings,
but we've had almost instant
gratification with earnings continuing
to
significantly surprise to the upside and
it's not just technology and it's not
just energy.
And we appreciate your enthusiasm sir,
as always. Ed Yardeni there, Ed Yardeni
Research constructive on this equity
market. How many times have we heard
this? That the adverse scenario is so
adverse that we won't see it because
ultimately they'll look to avoid it.
When you listen to the president
claiming the Iranians have made key
concessions, we don't know if they have.
We've yet to see evidence of it. When
you listen to the IMF and the World Bank
through this week in Washington DC,
they've been pretty clear. Every day
that goes by that the Strait of Hormuz
remains closed, you get closer and
closer to that so-called adverse
scenario.
>> Yeah, and part of the reason why the IMF
is particularly concerned is because
every day another country comes to them
with their hand out asking for money to
try to stave the gap that they have in
their budget as a result of trying to
buy energy and the fact their economy is
slowing otherwise. So they're feeling it
on the ground in the most vulnerable
countries. On a whole, this is where the
averages mask individual pockets of pain
and the reason why you can get a very
different sentiment than the overall
averages that speak to a much more
resilient kind of economy.
>> it comes to individual pockets of pain,
Bank of America Institute has a note out
this morning talking about small firms,
especially transportation, agricultural.
Their spending on energy, gas, diesel up
25%. And this is now April. This is
ahead of key driving season when prices
naturally and most normally go a lot
higher. And it's worth another week of
gains on the S&P 500 despite all of
that. Futures up by a quarter of 1% with
an update on stories worldwide. With
your Bloomberg Brief, I'm pleased to say
that joining us now is Scarlet Fu. Hey
Scarlet. Hey, good morning, John.
President Donald Trump says the war in
the Middle East could end soon. [music]
Trump says it may not be necessary to
renew a two-week ceasefire with Iran
before it [music] ends early next week
because the war could be over before
then. He also said the US and Iran could
meet for a second round of negotiations
this weekend.
Meantime, President Trump also says
Israel and Lebanon agreed to a 10-day
ceasefire. Trump [music] says he held,
quote, "Excellent conversations with
leaders of both countries." There was no
immediate confirmation from Israel or
Hezbollah.
And the US government wants to make a
version of Anthropic's AI model, Mythos,
available to major federal agencies. A
memo seen by Bloomberg did not specify
when various agencies would get access
or how they might use it. That is your
Bloomberg [music] Brief, John.
Hi Scarlet, thank you. Great work, as
always. Looking forward to catching up
with Scarlet again later this hour. Some
reporting from Axios coming [music]
about 10 minutes ago, 10 15 minutes ago,
that the boss of Anthropic will be
meeting with the chief of staff of the
White House, Susie Wiles, a little bit
later on today. There's a bit of a
contradiction, some tension here that's
worth exploring. But on the one hand,
this company is the [music] so-called
supply chain risk. On the other hand,
they want to use this company within the
government across various departments.
And the extra tension is that they
already are using this company across a
variety of different departments,
[music] and you could argue they've been
instrumental in the entire effort in
Iran as well as in other conflicts that
the US has been involved in. It's a
difficult moment. Which
>> [music]
>> side is going to give, and how do you
understand this uncomfortable situation
where executives have a good degree of
power over domestic security and
international security of [music]
different nations?
>> up with Gregory Allen of CSIS a little
bit later this hour on that topic. Up
next on the program, closing in on the
deal with Iran.
I think we have a very successful
negotiation going on right now,
and I think it'll be if it if it
happens, it'll be announced fairly soon.
And that'll give us
uh free oil, free almost straight.
Everything will be nice.
Up next, we'll catch up with Steven Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations live
from Washington, D.C. this morning. Good
morning.
Live from Washington, D.C. this morning.
Good morning to you all. Equity futures
right now, the S&P 500 firmer by a
quarter of 1% following a 4-day winning
streak on the S&P [music] and a second
consecutive day of closing above 7K
on the S&P. So far this morning, up a
quarter of 1% on the Nasdaq, up by 0.2.
[music] And the Savannah's this morning,
closing in on a deal with Iran.
I think we have a very successful
negotiation going on right now,
and I think it'll be if it if it
happens, it'll be announced fairly soon.
And that'll give us
free oil, free almost straight.
Everything will be nice. And I think
your oil price will go down to lower
than what it was before.
And I think a lot of good things will
happen. If there's no deal, fighting
resume.
So here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying Iran has
made key concessions [music]
ahead of potential negotiations later
this weekend. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well, President
Trump says that he may not even need to
extend the ceasefire set to expire on
Tuesday, telling reporters that progress
has been made related to Iran's nuclear
program. He says that the country is
prepared to turn over its already highly
enriched material in what would be
considered a major breakthrough for the
negotiations, but at this point, Iran
has not weighed in on these latest
remarks, and at least publicly recent
comments do indicate that the sides
still appear very far apart, which is
part of why Bloomberg News had been
reporting that they were mulling a
potential two-week extension to give
time for technical teams to make a
little bit more progress. And now some
Gulf Arab and European leaders are
telling Bloomberg News they don't see a
US-Iran deal materializing for another 6
months. Importantly, this reporting also
goes on to indicate that Gulf allies
share US concerns that any deal needs to
include a permanent ban on Iran's
nuclear program. Of course though, it's
not just the nuclear program. We are
also learning some more details about
how the Strait of Hormuz has been
operating as the Pentagon confirmed
yesterday that it has expanded its
blockade from just Iranian ports to also
include any vessels in the so-called
shadow fleet. John, as we await more
details, as you well know, the UK and
France are holding the summit today with
more than 40 nations about deploying a
potential naval force known as the
Maritime Freedom of Navigation
Initiative. The overall sense is that
these assets are not going to be
deployed until there is that longer-term
agreement.
We'll be tracking those negotiations if
they happen through the weekend. Tyler
Kengle there with the latest right here
in Washington D.C. To build on that
conversation, Steven Cook of the Council
on Foreign Relations writing the
Iranians would demand a role in whatever
is planned and will not give it up
whatever leverage they have. Steven
joins us now for more. Steven, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you. Let's
talk about some of the claims coming
from the president. Claiming they've
made some concessions. Can you just
outline your understanding of what the
demands are and what the concessions
might be? Well, the demands have been
pretty consistent that the Iranians have
to give up their nuclear program. They
have to give up their missile program
and stop arming and supporting their
proxies. I don't see any real movement
on the part of the Iranians. There may
be a negotiation. The Iranians may
demonstrate some tactical flexibility in
order to get themselves out from under
the problem that they've now found
themselves with a economy that's
teetering on the edge, but they want to
live to fight another day. And the
people in charge in Iran right now are
the hardest of the hardline. I mean, the
president keeps talking about this new
pragmatic regime. These are people with
a history of waging war against the
United States and its partners for the
last 47 years. Is the president just
basically insinuating they're pragmatic
cuz they showed up to talks? Is that it?
Is that the only step we've seen from
Iran to be willing to negotiate with the
United States is that they actually
showed up in Islamabad? Yeah, that's
precisely it. I mean, they're willing to
talk. So, essentially the president is
Roy Cohn-ing this. He's saying something
that he wants everybody to believe and
he's trying to create his own reality on
this. But, there's no indication that
this group of people are willing to meet
the United States. They're certainly
they're not willing to capitulate on the
battlefield. What makes anybody believe
they're going to capitulate at a
negotiating table?
>> You're right to say this
administration's been very consistent
with what they wanted to see from Iran.
But, now there's this extra additional
need, which is the opening of the Strait
of Hormuz. Would the United States or
Gulf partners accept the Strait of
Hormuz be open, but Iran would get some
sort of monetary
fund for that, a toll? It It strikes me
that the United States will accept that
at some point. Um, the Gulf states will
be very, very unhappy about this. I
mean, think about the strategic setback
this is for both the United States and
our Gulf partners. Before this war was
launched, there was freedom of
navigation through the Strait of Hormuz.
Now, the Iranians have some notional
leverage over the over the Strait,
although we're blockading it right now.
Some resolution of this that gives the
Iranians a role is something that no one
ever imagined. And can you imagine a
situation in which the Emiratis or the
Saudis have to pay their primary
regional adversary for transit through
the Strait of Hormuz to keep their
economies going? This is
a a tremendous strategic setback for the
United States as well as the Emirates,
the Saudis, the Iraqis, the Bahrainis,
everybody in the region. It's not just
about Iran, it's also about China. And
the Atlantic Council put out a graph
showing that the number of cross-border
payments transacted in renminbi has gone
up tremendously in the past 6 weeks. I
mean, how much do you see China stepping
in and trying to create the petroyuan to
try to reassert themselves in terms of
the voice of influence over the region?
Yeah, you know, I think the the Chinese
stand to gain here at the expense of the
United States. But I think that the
Chinese also have compelling interest in
freedom of navigation throughout the
throughout the world, but particularly
in the Strait of Hormuz. They also have
a ton of oil in storage. So, I think the
Chinese are well-placed um to play a
role. They have uh pushed the Iranians
into talks
uh and and and made their their
preferences known, but I don't think the
Chinese are really wanting to step in
and replace the United States here.
After all, to the extent that the United
States gets wrapped around the Strait of
Hormuz, Iran, and the region, there's
less time for the United States and less
resources for the United States to focus
on East Asia. It is not completely clear
what all of the goals are. There is a
general goal though in the United States
and in the Western world, freedom of
navigation through the seas,
a desire not to see a nuclear Iran.
What's Iran's ultimate goal given the
new leadership?
The ultimate goal of this regime is
survival. Okay, but beyond that, right?
I mean, but beyond that, right?
>> its nuclear program, I mean, the
ultimate guarantee of regime survival,
to hold on to the leverage that it now
has in the Strait of Hormuz, which is
something new, which is almost as good
as if not better than a nuclear program,
because you might be able to make money
off of it, and to continue to play a
role and put pressure on the rest of the
region. The Iranians have not given up,
despite the battering that they've
taken, any of the basics of their
approach to the region and their
approach to the United States.
>> There has been a change of strategy from
the United States. There is now a
blockade of the blockade. Does that mean
Iran has lost leverage or are they just
going to wait this out? Iranians look at
the world in a very different way the
way we look at the world. We look at the
world in 2 4 6 8-year periods because
that's our electoral cycle. Those in
charge of the Islamic Republic have a
much longer time frame. So, they'll wait
us out. They'll wait out a new
administration will come in. They'll
have some new approach.
Um and even if there is some change,
there's a blockade of a blockade, but
there's some negotiation that's going to
go on about the status of the about the
Strait of Hormuz. They're going to
insist that they play some role in it.
But right now, they can't move their
product either. And at some point in the
next few weeks, analysts say there's
going to be shut-ins. They could do some
serious damage of their wells, which is
oil is basically the main driver of
their economy. Do you think that could
force them to be a little bit more
pragmatic?
>> Well, certainly the economy is on the
verge of collapse. The Israelis and the
United States have done tremendous
damage from the air. And now, this
blockade is making
uh things even worse. But keep in mind,
as I said before, this is the hardest of
the hard line. They'd rather eat dust
than capitulate to the United States.
So, I think this is going to go on much
longer. And again, at the negotiating
table, there might be some tactical
flexibility. They're interested in in in
sanctions relief. But are they
interested in solving all the issues
between the United States and Iran? I
don't think so. Really tough question to
answer, but I've got to ask you.
>> And forgive me. You've got a base case
of how long the strait's going to be
closed for?
Uh I think there's the straits are going
to be closed for
at least next few months. The next few
months? I I I think it's entirely
possible that, you know, it's going to
take time to negotiate this uh this the
end of this blockade. That the Europeans
are talking about this mechanism. It'll
take time for them to get uh it together
to get naval escorts through the Strait
of Hormuz. That's even assuming that the
Europeans have the kind of
uh kind of
organizational capacity to actually do
this kind of thing without the help of
the United States. And as I said, I
think we're talking about the hardest of
the hardliners. There's going to be
tactical maneuvering around
negotiations, but it could be a while
before the Strait is actually opened in
a way that the economy can get going
again. Stephen, I appreciate your
perspective. Thank you, sir. Stephen
Cook there at the Council on Foreign
Relations. If there are any Europeans in
Washington waking up this morning at the
IMF World Bank Spring Meetings here in
the next few months, I'm sure they'll be
immensely concerned. We've seen the
rationing take place in Asia. And if the
Strait is closed for another few months,
you'd imagine you're going to see
similar things take place in European
nations in the weeks to come.
>> What did we hear from the IEA yesterday?
Fatih Birol talking about that Europe is
6 months away from running out of jet
fuel, and we're seeing flight
cancellations from European airlines
because they don't have access to the
product.
>> Unreal. Yeah, equities all-time highs on
the S&P 500 and on the Nasdaq at the
close on Thursday coming into Friday
futures up another quarter of 1% so far
this morning. Up next, we've got to talk
about this. Gregory Allen of CSIS as
Anthropic's latest AI model has markets
and the government very much on edge.
That conversation just around the
corner. Live from Washington D.C. this
morning. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Live from Washington D.C. this morning
at the IMF World Bank Spring Meetings
through this week. Equity futures
shaping up as follows. On the equity
market on the S&P 500, positive once
again, adding some weight to a
record-breaking [music]
rally. Four-day winning streak on the
S&P up 2/10 of 1%. 12-day winning streak
on the Nasdaq 100, the longest since
July 2017, [music] up another 0.1% so
far this morning on the S&P looking for
a third consecutive week of gains.
[music] Haven't seen that all year. For
oil, down for two straight weeks now. We
haven't seen that [music] since the war
started. WTI crude and Brent shaping up
as follows. Brent down by a little more
than 3% so far in the session. The front
month of the futures curve on WTI were
down by almost 4% at 91. [music] That's
the oil set up. Turn to the bond market.
You haven't seen as big a move. We
talked [music] a lot about this.
Equities have rallied more than 10% of
the lows. For crude, we've had a
sell-off of about 20% from the highs.
But in the bond market, we settled
around 430. Another close above that
level just yesterday, Brammo. This
morning, we're down by two basis points,
[music] 429.35.
There is a takeaway from someone in
fixed income. That just maybe we've
settled at a more elevated level because
of this [music] war. Yeah, and
ultimately, if you have strength in the
economy that can prop up equities to
record highs.
>> [music]
>> And frankly, you've got consumers that
can absorb the higher costs coming from
commodities well. Doesn't that indicate
that inflationary pressures are going to
remain just a bit higher than they would
otherwise be? Right now, if you take a
look at Fed funds futures, [music] there
are no rate cuts being fully priced into
the market by the end of this year.
>> Which is going to keep this Fed on the
sidelines. To the point, that's what the
market is priced for now. Even with the
new head of the Federal Reserve and a
hearing set to take place next week
[music] with Kevin Warsh on deck, there
is a belief on this market that those
rate cuts won't be happening anytime
soon.
>> even with Kevin Warsh becomes the next
Fed chair, I should say when. Everyone
believes in Washington, we've had a lot
of conversations about this that he will
be the [music] Fed chair. Just a matter
of timing and scheduling depending on
when the DOJ potentially drops this
probe. And then Tom Tillis, the senator
of North Carolina, can finally give a
yay vote to that.
>> [music]
>> Of course, the issue is, and Lisa
brought this up the other day, actually
this White House kind of gave cover to
the incoming [music] Fed chair saying,
"Maybe now, right now, is not the time
to move around [music] when it comes to
rates."
>> Gave cover to the Federal Reserve. I'm
not sure about the incoming Fed chair
because at the moment, there's no open
door for him to walk through. True.
>> I've I've that question repeatedly
through this week. Everyone I've met in
Washington, I've asked the following
question. Why won't the president take
the off-ramp? He's chosen his man.
He's highly confirmable. The Senate
wants to get [music] him through, get
him a seat on the FOMC.
The DOJ investigation could have gone
away, and yet they're sticking [music]
with it. You know, I can't answer that
question. In fact, I've tried to read
several psychology
manuals, and frankly, I think it's above
my pay grade. He's doubling down.
[music] He really does not like what has
happened. I mean, when the president
talks about this, he's emphatic. He does
not like what happened at the Federal
Reserve. He thinks it's gross misconduct
in terms of all the money they spent. I
mean, he went there with a hard hat to
look at this. Um and he's doubling down,
and he's not willing to take the
off-ramp yet. [music] Maybe it changes.
That hearing set to take place next
Tuesday. On a raise out this morning,
Netflix shares tumbling in pre-market
following a weaker-than-expected
outlook. The company's co-founder and
chairman, Reed Hastings, separately
announcing he will step down from the
board in June. Elsewhere, the president
claiming Iran has made key concessions
in negotiations, and a deal to end the
war could be announced soon. The
president saying the two sides may meet
for a second round of negotiations this
weekend. And finally, a 10-day
cease-fire between Israel and Lebanon is
now in effect. The Trump administration
ramping up pressure on the two nations
after the continuing violence threatens
to upend the US truce with Iran. Look,
this is a a key part, at least on the
part of Iran, to any kind of sustained
cease-fire. And the good news is that it
is holding for now, that it does appear
that the fighting, uh the bombing has
ceased. Question here of Hezbollah, the
group within Lebanon, uh whether they
are going to abide by this, whether
they've been a part of this. And then,
Stephen Cook has actually written about
this, and I think it's a really
interesting point. This idea that if
Hezbollah gets sort of downgraded as a
party within Lebanon, does that allow
Lebanon to normalize relations with
Israel, which would be absolutely a
setback for Iran. They don't want that
to happen. So, there are some sort of
entrenched sticking points that are
going to be very difficult to get over.
There's no way this Iranian regime is
going to want to withhold any money and
make sure that they want to make sure
they continue to support and back all
the proxies including Hezbollah. And in
Trump's Truth Social yesterday, he's
talking about Israel and Lebanon, no
mention of Hezbollah, which is what
where Israel's fighting. But it could
give a little bit more breathing room
for both sides of the negotiations to
have of the negotiations to actually
have these talks because the Iranians
every single time you speak to them and
hear from them in their press, they say,
well, one of our conditions now is that
Israel needs to stop when it comes to
the fighting of Hezbollah.
>> of Hormuz is still closed.
Yeah. And every day that goes by is
negative one. The IMF has said every day
that goes by we get closer and closer to
the so-called adverse scenario. I heard
from Steve Orth Federated just yesterday
who's made the point repeatedly that
this is so bad that if it can't happen
it won't. That's their view on things
and I think that's the market's view as
well. It's so bad that it can't happen.
So we can look through it. Yeah, you
speak to Stephen Cook, Lisa mentioned
him, we caught up with him just moments
ago. He's making the point that this
could go on for two months.
So you've got the analysts looking at
the prospect of this going on for one to
two months from here. Maybe longer, who
knows. I hope this is wrapped up
quickly. But this market is priced for
something very, very different. What
what's so interesting though is that
before this conflict began and there was
all these reporting that Trump is
potentially going to do this, everyone
said, well, Iran would never go for the
nuclear option which is actually closing
the Strait of Hormuz. That would never
happen. It is too dangerous. It is too
much of an economic blowback for
everyone, not just the global economy,
but also the Iranians themselves. And
guess what? They did. They went for that
nuclear option and they decided to close
the Strait.
>> The WTI this morning at about 91 Brent
crude in the mid-90s. We need to talk
about this story, too. It's one of the
big stories here in Washington, D.C. and
for that matter on Wall Street. And
Tropic's latest AI model sending
shockwaves across Wall Street. The White
House moving to give US agencies access
even as officials warn of major
cybersecurity risks. Gregory Allen at
CSIS writing, "Mythos is a genuine
watershed in cyber offense. Wall
Street's reaction confirms this isn't
hype. Gregory joins us now for more.
Gregory, good morning. Great to be with
you.
>> Let's start with what this is. Can you
briefly describe what is Mythos? So,
everyone who has used an AI chatbot such
as ChatGPT or Claude is familiar with
that kind of interface. And over the
past year, we've seen dramatic progress
in these capabilities, not just in
chatting with users, but actually
writing software programs. And as they
get more agentic, building fully fleshed
out systems. So, if you're really,
really good at writing computer code,
it's not that far away to be really,
really good at hacking computer code.
And what we've seen is an explosion, a
qualitative shift in just how much these
models can achieve. This is the latest
and greatest Anthropic model, and it is
capable of executing, not just finding a
bug, but exploiting that bug, going
through all the links of the cyber kill
chain to successfully execute attack,
and doing so autonomously. Now, why does
that matter? Because even though we're
talking about computers, cybersecurity
has actually been under a massive labor
shortage for the past 20 years. If you
think about, you know, why aren't why
aren't we able to patch all of these
bugs? It's because hackers are really
expensive. These are talented folks who
are difficult to train. But now, if AI
can do so much of that job by itself,
you start thinking about Anthropic as a
company having capabilities comparable
to that of the National Security Agency
in the United States government. And
fortunately, Anthropic was the one to
get to this future first. They're
approaching the United States
government, they're approaching critical
infrastructure companies, they're
approaching the key cloud providers and
banks, and saying,
"This is what we've discovered. You live
in a different world now. Let's figure
out how to secure it."
>> From your standpoint, are you fearful
this could expose vulnerabilities or
hopeful it would improve resilience? So,
I think there's a sequencing part of all
of this story. This is a capability that
is useful for cyber offense, and that
means doing bad things, but also doing
things that are critical to US national
security. But, it's also a boon for
cyber defense because you can imagine
every new piece of software, before it
enters the world, is going to have to go
through the Mythos test, which is to
say, can you survive this gauntlet? And
the reality is going through that
gauntlet before was, number one, pretty
expensive and time-consuming, and number
two, not perfect. There was a lot of
bugs that weren't discovered, and we
know that because Mythos just discovered
a giant pile of new bugs in all this
stuff. So, this does offer a world in
which we can secure our software more in
a in a bigger way. The problem is that
transition point. There is a massive
amount of code, whether that's
open-source code, and it turns out that
much of the infrastructure of the
internet relies on stuff that is
maintained by volunteers, and also big
critical infrastructure providers. We're
talking banks, energy companies, and the
amount of overhauling that they have to
do over the next 12 months is massive,
and the question is, you know, how long
can we keep the Mythos capability
exclusively in the hands of the good
guys? How much can we patch before
problems start arising?
>> How far behind is the government from
the private sector, and how willing is
the government to work with said private
sector? The There's been some tension
between. So, if you're talking about
could the United States federal
government create something like Mythos?
Could they create something like a
frontier AI model? They are very, very,
very far behind. They're really not even
trying. So, the only way that they can
get access to these capabilities is to
work with private industry, the types of
folks who can do this. And in this case,
Anthropic has what they estimate to be a
6-18 month lead even over OpenAI, even
over all the other best AI labs in the
world, which are in the private sector.
So, that period of time is a critical
window to start patching all of this
computer code before China catches up,
before hacker communities get access to
comparable capabilities. And tragically,
that window of time is one that the US
government is at risk of squandering
because of a dispute over contracting
terms in Anthropic's working with the
Pentagon. Uh just for folks who aren't
aware, Anthropic is a critical provider
not just of cyber AI capabilities, but
also of AI capabilities that are useful
in intelligence and war-fighting,
literally being used in Iran right now
every single day. And despite Anthropic
providing all those critical
capabilities to key national security
agencies, over this contracting dispute,
the Pentagon decided to label them a
supply chain risk. The type of
designation that we use when we find out
a company is secretly like a front for
Chinese spies. Um it's completely
unreasonable, and the the government is
in this moment of utter confusion.
Because on the one hand, they're saying,
"Anthropic, you've got to help us secure
the financial arteries of our economy on
cyber." On the other hand, "We don't
trust you at all, and actually we'd
prefer if you go out of business."
>> When we talk to different executives and
we ask them about Mythos, they say,
"Well, there's as much good as there is
bad, and we're actually really
optimistic." When you talk to them, not
on a camera, what's the level of concern
right now among executives as well as
government officials about what this
could do in terms of systemic
disruption? So, I think the way to think
about it is what if Anthropic wasn't
going down this path, right? Anthropic
is suffering in business terms because
they're not offering Mythos to all of
their customers right now. They've made
a strategic decision to withhold these
capabilities to invite in 40 key
companies, to invite in banks and
government agencies to try and secure
the internet from this degree of cyber
power. In the alternative scenario,
where this fell into the hands of
somebody who wanted to use it to make
bets on the market, or somebody who
wanted to use it to exploit cyber
offense in a national security sense,
maybe one of our adversaries, we would
be having a completely different
conversation. So, the executives are
probably right because Anthropic has
chosen the strategy of engagement and
support, the long-term outlook is pretty
good. What they're really going to be
dealing with is an incredibly messy
middle. Gregory, you said that Anthropic
is being used right now when it comes to
the war. How has Project Maven changed
how the US fights war?
So, Project Maven started out as a
relatively humble project to incorporate
AI into analyzing drone surveillance
feeds. So, if you're familiar with those
Predator eyes in the sky type of drones,
it turns out that here, too, there's a
major labor shortage. It turns out that
the US military has a really hard time
getting people to watch all of those
screens simultaneously. So, Project
Maven thought we can bring in AI
computer vision, they can help these
analysts by doing sort of the first
processing task of this type of footage,
and that was back in 2018-2019.
What it could do is it could say, "Hey,
in all of these satellite photos or
drone photos, this part is all empty
water, but right here there's a
warship." Fast forward to today, and the
capabilities are much more
sophisticated, in part because we're
incorporating things like Anthropic
models, large language models. And what
that means is that the AI can no longer
just say, "Here is a warship." It can
say, "Hey, there was no warships in this
area yesterday, now there's 10. They
appear to be headed in this direction."
And it can write the first draft of the
intelligence report about what those
things might be up to. And it can speed
up all of these workflows. When you hear
about the fact that, for example, the
United States military struck 1,000
targets in 24 hours in the first part of
the Iranian war, you know, the benchmark
in the US government used to be like 50
per day. And the key thing is not just
how many things you can strike, but the
fact that many of those targets are
mobile, many of those targets are
disguised. So, when you hear about 1,000
struck targets in Iran, what that
actually means is 10,000, 20,000
high-quality intelligence processing and
targeting decisions that had to be made.
There's no way the US government could
have done that without the help of AI.
Gregory, appreciate your time. Thanks
for making time for us today. Thank you.
Gregory Allen there at CSIS on the
latest from Anthropic. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Let's go to
have a Scarlet Fu. Hey, Scarlet. Hi,
John. At least two more empty tankers
linked to Iran have sailed into the
Persian Gulf. This comes [music] hours
after US naval forces Central Command
warned it would consider boarding and
seizing any sanctioned vessels
regardless of location. [music]
SpaceX is moving up its vesting schedule
for employees. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg it could come as early as
next [music] week as the company
prepares for its IPO, which is targeting
a valuation of more than $2 trillion.
[music]
President Donald Trump warns that New
York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani is
destroying the city. Trump says
Mamdani's plans to raise [music] taxes
on the wealthy will cause harm and chase
people out of the nation's largest city.
[music]
That's your Bloomberg Brief. John?
Hi, Scarlet. Thank you. More from
Scarlet in the next hour. Up next on the
program, bracing for energy [music]
volatility.
The situation will gradually improve,
but we should be prepared
to live with the
volatile energy markets [music]
for some time to come.
I'm next with up with the Egyptian
Minister of Investment and Trade.
[music]
Live from Washington, D.C. this morning.
Good morning to [music] you all.
Wrapping up our coverage of the IMF
World Bank Spring Meetings, with equity
futures adding to gains on the S&P 500
up another 2/10 of [music] 1%. This
headline just crossing from the EU,
planning to prepare a joint action on
jet fuel, if the blockade [music] of the
Strait of Hormuz persists. And it looks
like, for now, at least as far as we
know, it's persisting.
>> I would love to know how what the
Europeans think persisting, what that
timeline is, because the IEA IEA
yesterday saying 6 weeks, that's all
they have left when it comes to jet
fuel. And [music] basically, they're
going to be closing down some flights
very soon. And as Savannah's this
morning bracing for energy [music]
volatility.
The situation will gradually improve,
but it can take up to 2 years
to see a the big chunk of the production
[music] coming back to the before war
levels. And some of them may be even
longer than 2 years. We should be
[music] prepared
uh, to rather volatile energy markets
>> [music]
>> for some time, uh, to come.
So, here's the latest this morning,
optimism rising over an end to the war,
as major economic risks still remain
high for countries across the Middle
East. Joining us now, I'm very pleased
to say, His Excellency, Mohamed Farid
Saleh, the Egyptian Minister of
Investment and Trade. Minister, good
morning, sir, and welcome to the studio.
Good morning. Thank you.
>> It's good to see you. Can you walk us
through the current state of the economy
in Egypt? How resilient things are, the
degree of fuel rationing you've had to
implement to get through this very
difficult period. Um, as you mentioned,
the what's happening in the region is
indeed affecting I would say economies
and markets. However, it's all about the
response of governments to the current
turbulence and how we deal with it from
a policy perspective. That's from the
one hand and the consistency of messages
and policy as well being undertaken. So,
in the case of Egypt, we were very how
can I say, foreseeing that this conflict
might be taking some time as opposed to
initial expectations that it is going to
end very soon. Accordingly, we took a
very I would say
quick actions when it comes to
rationing, increasing the the energy
prices across the different products
that are being sold in the Egyptian
market. And this is coming from a
consistent fiscal consolidation policy.
So, we foresaw that these type of
measures and these prices and what's
happening in the natural gas prices, in
the oil prices would be having a
detrimental impact on our fiscal
deficit. And accordingly, we had to
ration very quickly. And to adjust
prices to reflect what is happening in
the oil prices from the one hand. On the
other hand, our response to the monetary
policy
regarding how we're dealing with
these type of shocks and the absorption
capacity of the economy, the flexibility
that we have shown through the Central
Bank of Egypt, of course, in terms of
the effects to be absorbing some of
these shocks as well had a positive I
would say impact in terms of conveying
to the market the consistency of our
reforms. We had embarked and clearly
communicated to the public and to
investors a couple of years ago or two
and a half years ago that we are
inflation targeting. So, inflation
targeting implies that you need to be
capable of using your other tools such
as interest rate, such as
FX rates to curb inflation in the medium
term and to act as an absorption to the
shocks that are happening. So, energy
for us Uh, uh, we're in a much better
initial condition. We have, uh,
regasification, I would say, ports, uh,
in Egypt, one on the northern side and
one on the, uh, Red Sea side. And hence,
we don't have a problem when it comes to
availability. However, the costing, of
course, had increased.
>> When it comes to the Red Sea, though, do
you have contingency plans if, say, Bab
el Mandeb Strait gets closed by the
Houthis? It It had happened before. So,
so, basically, we deal with it, uh, as
it happens. Uh, we Of course, we work on
eliminate or reduce the probability of
this happening through political
dialogue, diplomatic dialogues, and so
on and so forth, as much as we can.
However, we have dealt with this before
and we get to see what is happening
currently in the in terms of the ship
shipments that are passing through the
Suez Canal actually had been increasing
and recovering gradually from previous
halts in the, uh, Strait of Bab el
Mandeb. So, yeah. Lots of reports that
it's not just Pakistan, it's Turkey and
Egypt behind the scenes helping mediate
between United States and Iran. What has
been your role, exactly? Well, as a
Minister of Investment, I don't think I
have a role here, but the Minister of
Foreign Affairs would be having
I I believe we have quite, uh, a good
role when it comes to mediating between
the different parties uh, trying to
reach to a common ground uh, regarding
the ceasefire, regarding what are the
next steps as well. So, it's not only
about the ceasefire, but the next steps
after uh, reaching to a a point of
conclusion so that we ensure it doesn't
happen, uh, again. So, I'm quite sure
that
the the country itself, and as well
through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
are doing quite, uh, a good
communication uh, I would say, efforts
and mediation efforts between the
different uh, parties associated, and
probably it's not only Egypt as well,
you will find Turkey as well part of the
equation of these mediation efforts.
While you're here in Washington, D.C.,
how much are you looking to raise money
in case the Strait of Hormuz is closed
for, say, months, like an analyst who
was just on seemed to suggest?
Uh,
our aim today is basically a one of
course to uh, be attending the relevant
meetings and functions at the IMF World
Bank. And the second
target would be meeting investors
because this period is a convening
period for all investors around the
world to be participating in in some of
those meetings. So our target would be
explaining to investors what have we
done in terms of policy reforms, our
consistency in the reform plan
irrespective of what's happening. We
cannot be how can I say affected by
interim problems that are going to
happen when we get to see what's
happening in the world starting from
emerging market crisis in 2019, COVID
afterwards, Russia-Ukraine war and so on
and so forth. So basically we know that
it is a current turbulent period whereby
we need to be consistent in our reforms
and not affected. We might have to
fine-tune some of our reform plans, but
it is consistent reform plans empowering
the private sector and and that's why
the recent figures example of the
private sector investments that grew
from a 40% of total investments in in
Egypt to around 58%
during the latest quarterly figures.
When we get to look at the industrial
growth rate of the
industry sector in Egypt, it it grew by
an average of 9% during the last
24 months.
All of this resulted in a growth rate of
5.2% which in itself is a driving force
and attracting investors to
participating in a young population, 70%
of the population is under 40 or 35
years old, a vibrant economy and so on
and so forth. Minister, I've only got 10
seconds left. I've had so many people
ask me the same question. Do you know
where Mohamed Salah goes next?
>> That's the That's like the most the most
important question.
>> That is the most important question and
I would have loved to know, but
unfortunately I don't know. Minister and
gentlemen, thanks for giving us some
time this morning. We appreciate it.
Thank you. Enjoy your time in
Washington, D.C. The Egyptian Minister
>> [music]
>> of Investment and Trade, Mohamed Farid
Salah. Up next on the program we'll
catch up with Rick Reeder of BlackRock,
the Republican Congressman French Hill,
Joyce Chang of JP Morgan, and the former
White House senior advisor Amos
Hochstein, the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
We haven't lost US exceptionalism. The
consumer has remained intact.
>> There has been a pullback in labor
demand.
>> Inflation expectations in the near term,
obviously, will rise. The economy is
still showing signs of weakness despite
the comments about resilience. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
What a record-breaking run in this
equity market stateside. Live from the
nation's capital this morning. Good
morning. Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now, and your
scores look like this. A 12-day [music]
run winning streak on the Nasdaq 100,
and we add some weight to that run. On
the Nasdaq 100 this morning, up by 1/10
of 1% on the S&P, up by 0.2 on the
Russell, up by 0.4. Energy has really
struggled. Tech and everything else has
done anything but struggle. This rally
has been explosive. [music]
>> Yeah, it really has been one of the
fastest peak-to-trough or
trough-to-peak, I should say, markets
that we've seen in recent [music] memory
when you talk about moving from oversold
to overbought territory in 18 days. That
is the fastest [music] that we have seen
going back, I believe, to 2016. A
question here about how durable this is,
and how [music] much this indicates that
the US economy, in particular, is more
independent from some of the
geopolitical concerns, in particular,
the price of commodities.
>> Well, let's start with the earnings. So,
the outlook for earnings has improved.
[music] It's not worsened based on the
estimates. Now, whether that changes in
the coming weeks remains to be seen, but
let's go with it. We've had some [music]
decent guidance this week from ASML.
We've had some decent guidance from
Taiwan semi encouraging that move into
the tech trade. And this week, not just
about hardware, not just about the
semis, also about software, which has
had [music] a incredible recovery over
the last few days. So, let's park tech.
Then you've got the situation in the
Middle East. Encouraged by the words of
the president of the United States, some
verbal intervention once again in the
last 24 [music] hours claiming the
Iranians are ready to make concessions.
That's the claim. We've yet to see any
real evidence [music] backed up by the
Iranians themselves. The US is talking
about talks through the weekend. Let's
see if we get those [music] talks and
let's see if it leads to a genuine
breakthrough that leads to an
improvement in the flow of energy
through the Strait of Hormuz.
>> There's been no verbal evidence from the
Iranians and there's been no physical
evidence from the Iranians that they are
willing to give up or capitulate really
on what the president wants to see. He
says they're ready to give up the
nuclear dust. [music] We haven't seen
any of that. At the moment, the success
of these talks is the fact that both
sides are showing up and that they want
to talk. At the moment, straight bombs
are not dropping, but the facts on the
ground [music] have not changed for the
Strait of Hormuz. And I'm really struck
by what Europe's doing. Not only is
Europe, the IEA, saying that they're
going to [music] run out of jet fuel,
the Europeans are now preparing a
coordinated action, a task force
basically to work together if they do
get to that point where they're going to
have to start
>> [music]
>> working together to get jet fuel. KLM
yesterday canceled some flights. You're
actually seeing on the margins some
companies have to rearrange because they
don't have access to the fuel. Yeah,
[music] markets just want to know what
they have to discount, right? I mean, I
think that it's interesting to note that
European equity funds suffered the
largest weekly outflow going back to
November of 2024. [music] So, people
clearly are worried about Europe. Over
in the US, people are saying as long as
things don't get worse, we know how to
game out some sort of future and we know
how to understand how to discount
[music]
some of the incoming data.
>> I think it's beyond that. There is a
belief that if things get worse, it'll
be so bad it's got to be [music]
avoidable, so it will be avoided. That
seems to be the take that the president
is actively looking for the off-ramp,
that we've [music] seen this before. We
saw it last year, and we've seen it
repeatedly in between, back in the first
term as well over [music] things like
trade. But ultimately, because the
president wants it, we'll get it. I'm
not sure how simple it is this [music]
time around. Every strategist we speak
to says it's not simple at all, and
frankly, it looks really terrible. And
guess what? We're really pessimistic,
and we have no idea what the markets are
looking at. [music] And then the market
says, "Well, if you take a look, bombs
are not being dropped. So, guess what?
It's getting better. At least it's not
getting worse, and that's enough for
us."
>> Equity futures on the S&P getting better
once again. And it's some way to a
record-breaking rally up by a quarter of
1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour,
catch up with Rick Reeder of BlackRock
with the Nasdaq on a 12-day tear,
Republican Congressman French Hill as
the Fed chair confirmation hearing
looms, and former White House senior
advisor Amos Hochstein as President
Trump bets on a weekend breakthrough in
the Iran war. We begin this hour with
stocks sitting at record highs as
investors eye potential US-Iran truce.
Rick Reeder of BlackRock writing the
immense disruption of trade and global
supply conditions will be what truly
influences market pricing. Rick joins us
now for more. Rick, welcome to the
program, buddy. Always a privilege, a
pleasure to catch up with you, sir. This
move that we've seen in this equity
market, we've thrown so much at the
stock market over the last several
months. AI disruption, private market
jitters, and now the Strait of Hormuz
remaining closed for almost 2 months
now, Rick. And here we are at all-time
highs. Does that bring you comfort or
make you nervous?
Uh huh, good question. I So,
I'd say I'd say a couple things. First
of all, I think what it tells you is the
technicals in the equity market are
extraordinary. And the earnings numbers
that are coming through are pretty
powerful. And so, you know, you look at
the US economy, and you look at what's,
you know, I heard that at the beginning
of the show talking about the economy's
weak, economy's strong. Actually, the
parts of the economy and the primary
drivers are doing quite well. You look
at tech, I mean, you look at some of the
numbers yesterday that you cited. And
you look at these earnings growth. I
mean, I was looking at some of the
semis. You're talking about 97% earnings
growth year on year. I mean, like
unbelievably powerful numbers. And then
you look at, you know, the high-end
consumer, that consumption, you look at
retail sales when you break it down,
pretty darn good. So, you've got an
economy, and by the way, you've got you
know, your housing's not in good shape,
lower income's not in good shape. So,
that is is what it is, but what drives
the equity market is in pretty good
shape. And the technical, so you had
this period of time that nobody wanted
to buy stocks, and then you realize, you
know, I've said it before, you know,
you're going to have an IPO counter this
year that maybe's a couple hundred
billion, maybe.
>> [snorts]
>> We're going to buy back a trillion of
stock this year. So, we're actually
there's not enough stock to buy. So,
it's just a pretty you know, talk about
how explosive this is. You realize
people sit on their hands, I don't want
to do anything, particularly in tech.
And then all of a sudden, you know,
maybe a little bit of better news, the
earnings come in, and then and then you
create this. The technicals in equities,
by the way, it's completely different in
when you think about the Treasury
market, etc., because we're getting do
we get 520 billion a week of supply?
It's uh I mean, it's amazing in the
equity market how we how good the
technicals are.
Rick, is there a contradiction in the
fact that we're seeing such explosive
confidence in equities? You're seeing so
much cash out there that are looking for
places to go, and at the same time
people are expecting inflation to come
back down to 2% over the next 5 to 10
years. Does that seem contradictory?
No, I mean, I listen, I think I think
and I've been doing this for
uh many, many a few decades. I've never
seen a productivity revolution like this
before. I mean, so you go through and
then almost every company I look at, you
see a similar dynamic. And grow my top
line revenue, let's say it's 4 to 10%. I
would say tech is significantly more
significant than that. But then if I
keep my labor static to down, and then
if I can get my cost of goods sold, and
you see this in M&A, if I can create
synergies, I can run a higher operating
margin. If you can run a higher
operating margin, then my ROE is is
significantly higher. And so then it
just keeps driving this dynamic. So, you
you think about what And by the way, we
haven't really seen automation, AI
really kick in yet. So, I think you you
know this this transmission, part of why
I think big cap stocks are so powerful,
is you're building a moat cuz you
utilize data so effectively. We're
seeing productivity take place. It buoys
earnings. Companies do great. By the
way, the the counter of that, it's not
great from an employee point of view.
You're seeing that play out, which I you
know it's part of what you know what
affects the interest rate transmission.
So, it's a really good story from a
productivity and a corporate earnings
point of view. Not so much for uh for
the broad broad population.
So, Rick, how bullish are you right now?
It sounds like you're incredibly bullish
on big caps. I mean, are you essentially
going all in? Do you think it is a time
to go into equities over bonds? To go
into equities over cash? To go into
equities over commodities?
Uh I I'm not that bullish, but I I
Listen, I think Listen, we you know we
we are long the equity market. You know,
one of the things that happens when you
know you had what happened a few weeks
ago when volatility spikes, you can't
really it's hard to have a very long
equity position because you can't manage
your risk using the volatility markets.
Now, vol has come down. It allows you to
run a bit longer equity disposition. And
so, yeah, I like equities. If you said
to me, let's look at the credit markets.
You say, "Gosh, where is high yield?
Where is investment grade credit?" And I
say, "Okay, I've got some beta that I
can put in the portfolio." Look at where
spreads are investment grade credit, not
interesting. High yield, you know, it
carries well. Spreads are not that
interesting. So, I said, "Gosh, I'm
going to take my beta and orient it a
bit more towards the equity market or
more towards the equity market where the
earnings growth is explosive. I got
convexity to the upside and I can manage
the risk." That's a better in a
portfolio construct, that's a better
disposition than I think than you know
parts of the credit market are today.
Rick, how do you think the Federal
Reserve is thinking about all of this,
especially given the fact that we are
seeing higher energy costs in the United
States? Not as high as Asia and Europe,
but they are still sticking higher.
You know, they got to tell you uh this
is a pretty extraordinary point in time.
And I you know, part of what I'm talking
about productivity and the employment
dynamic. Listen, I think the Fed, you
will be on hold and watch the data. And
you'll see you know, by the way, you're
going to see and we are seeing some what
will be some particularly headline
inflation some heavier numbers on
inflation. I think what the Fed has to
do and the ECB has to do is think about
you having a supply shock. This is not a
demand driven inflation. By the way, you
think about what's happening to lower
income, middle income people. You're
getting hurt on food costs, fuel costs.
You know, why would we raise interest
rates to raise your mortgage? Doesn't
make any any sense. So, I think what
what the what your synopsis is around
that is gosh, I'll I'll stay on hold for
a bit. I'll watch the data. I think the
ECB should do the same. Maybe they get
ahead of it and hike a couple of times.
But I listen, I think you know, what we
talked about before, how's it Look at
the housing numbers this week. You look
at existing home sales. When the
mortgage rate shifts up, home sales come
down. And then you look at the breakdown
of retail sales,
you know, what's happening and I mean
it's the dispersion keeps growing. Lower
income, middle income having a hard
time. That's where the interest
sensitivity is. So, listen, I think they
still the Fed has to get the rate down.
I still think you'll get a couple of
cuts. Do you push it back a little bit?
Yeah, maybe. But you're talking about a
very two-speed economy where interest
rates really affects things. Housing,
small business, lower income. And it's
part of why I think the rate can come
down.
So, [snorts] Rick, let's look across the
curve right now. If the Fed's going to
stand hold, that's going to anchor the
front end. We've seen a lot of that in
the performance of fixed income and
treasury yields over the past few weeks.
If you go further out along the curve,
it just feels like the 10-year is
anchored around 4:30, which was the
upper end of the pre-war range. How does
your thinking sort of adjust when you
talk about what's going to happen with
Fed funds and the relationship between
that and how it informs your view of how
we'll get some performance further out
along the curve?
You know, I got I got to tell you,
Jonathan. I mean it when you know, you
hear people come on and say I think
rates are going higher, I think they're
going I think rates are going lower. I
actually find the 10-year part of the
curve from an from From asset allocation
point of view not interesting. As you
said, but by the way, my colleague Russ
Brnbach talks about on your show all the
time. If you go back over the last year
or so and you look at the end of every
quarter, you look at the end of the
year, we pretty much hover around 425,
maybe maybe 430, but it's pretty
unbelievably stable. There's a lot of
discussion about what do you do with the
with with with the 10-year point. I do
think there'll be initiatives and I do
think what, you know, when Kevin Warsh
is confirmed, I do think you'll see a
dynamic where can you contain the
10-year point of the curve? Can you keep
mortgage rates down? Are there
initiatives to actually pull that
mortgage rate down that you can have
through fiscal stimulus? That's really
powerful. My sense is that 10-year note
will drift lower over the over, you
know, through this year as you get maybe
get the funds rate down a bit. Can you
keep the 10-year alongside of it? But I
will tell you Jonathan, in our
portfolios, I say, you know, for
particularly with the back end, not
interesting. I just want to you know,
what I try and do is keep my front to
the belly yield curve exposure and I
just clip coupon. Like this is a year
like if we can just keep giving clients
six and a quarter type of coupon, type
of yield, uh which you could do without
without compromising rating, I'm just
going to keep staying there and then,
you know, let people, you know, get
excited about where we're going in the
back end of the curve.
Rick, I've got to ask you what kind of
initiatives would bring down rates,
yields at the long end of the curve?
So, so by by the way, bunch of things.
From the Fed from the Fed point of view,
you can use your balance sheet
effectively. We have 89% of the debt of
the Treasury markets in the zero to
two-year part of the yield curve. It's
actually not that much out in the back
end. The Fed can actually be very, very
effective in how you manage the back end
of the yield curve. Second thing you do,
you see that the administration through
the GSE program is actually buying a
huge amount of mortgages, couple hundred
billion mortgages. You can actually do a
bit more with regard to that. There are
things you can do in terms of creating
initiatives to stimulate housing, home
builder incentives, etc. that pull that
mortgage rate down. There's a whole
series of things. Listen, I mean you
look at existing home sales which you
talk about, you look at how there's not
enough inventory of houses today. It
influences labor mobility to the
negative because we don't have enough
inventory, people can't move. It
influences we don't build enough houses,
we don't put enough people to work in
shelter. And by the way, you can't bring
down shelter inflation because we don't
have enough houses. There's tremendous
uh motivation and quite frankly, the
initiative to actually bring down
housing costs and to bring your to build
more inventory to bring down that
mortgage rate. You know, I think it has
much more much more uh benefit than
people give credit to.
Rick, appreciate your time. It's always
good to hear from you. That'll be a
stranger, Rick Rieder there of
BlackRock. Thank you, sir. Thank you
very much. He's been hot on that point
for quite a while that we need to do
something about the pricing at the long
end of the curve because of the
influence that has, the outside
influence that has on things like
housing. Yeah, and the reason that the
Fed should be cutting rates in his view
is because it disproportionately affects
the real world. As he was talking, I was
thinking he's running. You think so? I
think he's running. No, I mean honestly,
I it's I'm done with that. I mean well
for for Fed chair, but there are other
things, you know, I mean ultimately you
know, well I I honestly, Rick, I'm
sorry. I'm just, you know, spreading
rumors, but to me I the real issue is
what you hear from so many different
people in Wall Street is there is this
huge dichotomy and something needs to
get done and it isn't necessarily from
their world.
>> an update on news elsewhere this
morning. We'll go to Bloomberg Brief.
It's Scarlet Fu. Hey, Scarlet. Good
morning, John. President Donald Trump
says the war in the Middle East could
end soon. Trump says it may not be
necessary to renew a two-week [music]
ceasefire with Iran before it ends early
next week because the war could be over
before that. He also said Iran and the
US might meet for a second round of
negotiations this weekend. [music]
The gridlock in the Strait of Hormuz is
sparking a surge in traffic at the
Panama Canal. Tankers and cargo ships in
the waterway They facing a wait time of
three and a half days. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that one tanker
paid $4 million to jump the line.
And Netflix shares are lower in the
pre-market after the streaming company's
second quarter forecast [music]
missed analyst estimates. Netflix also
announced its co-founder and chairman
Reed Hastings will step down from the
board after 29 years. [music]
That is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Hi Scarlet, thank you. More from Scarlet
later this hour. Up next on the program,
making the [music] case for Kevin Warsh.
He certainly wants to cut rates. I've
been watching him for a long time. But
uh he's very smart, very good. He was
the central casting guy people wanted.
Looks don't mean anything, but he's got
the look, right? He's got the whole
package and I think he's going to do a
great job.
Up next we'll catch up with the
Republican Congressman French Hill from
Washington [music] D.C. this morning.
Good morning.
Stocks up again by a quarter of 1% on
the S&P 500. Record highs at the close
yesterday and added some weight to the
rally on the Nasdaq up by 2/10.
>> [music]
>> Anna Savanis this morning making the
case for Kevin Warsh.
He certainly wants to cut rates. I've
been watching him for a long time. Is
Kevin Warsh
a good choice? Did you have any concerns
about his hawkish history uh of pushing
for rate hikes? He's going to want to do
the same thing. I think that yeah, I've
had time to him. I think you've had
thoroughly have rate hikes, too. Uh but
uh he's very smart, very good. He was
the central casting guy people wanted.
Looks don't mean anything, but he's got
the look, right? He's got the whole
package and I think he's going to do a
great job.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Kevin Warsh's confirmation hearing set
for Tuesday. The DOJ investigation into
the Fed's renovation project threatening
to stand in his way. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall has the latest. Hey, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, Kevin
Warsh will be in front of the Senate
Banking Committee as Senator Tom Tillis
holds firm he will not vote to advance
the nomination until the legal matter
against Fed Chair Jerome Powell is
resolved and he really could make good
on his threats. Republicans only hold a
13-11 majority. Now I've heard it
floated before that maybe Republicans
would look to use a discharge petition
to bypass procedure but I have to say I
called up a few sources on Capitol Hill
and they're saying that that would be a
lot easier said than done for a list of
reasons including that that would likely
require what's known as cloture being
invoked and that requires a 2/3 majority
which means Democrats would have to get
on board and at this point they're not.
In fact we're seeing a last minute push
by Senate Democrats today to try to
delay next week's testimony. Now John,
as you know the Trump administration was
offered a potential off-ramp here after
a judge last month moved to block the
subpoenas in this case but even as we
know that the legal bar is very high to
remove a Federal Reserve official, the
Department of Justice is still vowing to
appeal that decision.
Toda, thanks for breaking down the
details. We've got a perfect guest to
have this conversation, the Republican
Congressman French Hill joins us around
the table, also the chair of the House
Financial Services Committee. Mr.
Chairman, it's good to see you. Great to
be with you and great to have you all
three in Washington.
>> Thank you for hosting us. Thank you for
hosting us, sir. Let's talk about this.
I've asked so many people this question,
I'll ask it you. Why isn't the president
taking the off-ramp and getting his man
confirmed at the Federal Reserve?
Well, it's what I'd recommend. I mean I
said back in January that I didn't think
Jay Powell had done anything criminal
and that it was a distraction to
have the DOJ do that investigation which
is as I've said many times doesn't
exempt the Fed from criticism. I've had
plenty of things that I think that Jay
Powell or the Fed board should have done
differently over the years.
But it's time to move on from this. Uh
the petitions to the court have been
rejected and I think it's time to move
on from the case and put our attention
around getting Kevin Warsh confirmed by
the United States Senate. Do you think
there's enough pressure right now on the
White House for the president to take
the off-ramp?
Well, I would hope so. You see this
letter that you just had the reporting
on from the Democrats and Senator Tillis
is still very committed to um holding
his support of the nomination until this
is behind us. The House committee or the
Senate committee can continue to work at
uh look at the investigation of the
building if they want to and that kind
of thing, but when it comes to our
oversight of monetary policy, our
oversight of the Treasury market
structure, uh uh the face of just doing
our routine work and overseeing the Fed,
I'd like to see the new chair confirmed
and let President Trump have a new
partner at the Fed, let Treasury
Secretary Mnuchin have a new partner in
bank supervision and monetary policy.
It's It's time and I think it's
important to move.
>> It feels like the president's doubling
down. Maybe he doesn't want to lose
face. So, what could potentially be an
off-ramp? I mean, he likes deals. Is
potentially I'm going to drop the DOJ
case, but Jay Powell, you're not staying
on till 2028? Well, uh I think Chairman
Powell uh is interested in uh seeing his
replacement confirmed and I think
Chairman Powell's probably interested in
going on to the next phase of his
career and his life, quite frankly. So,
But, you don't think he's staying on as
governor?
Well, I think that depends on according
to Jay Powell, that's uh how's he's
inclined to stay on according to Jay
Powell if Kevin's not confirmed and if
this case is not dropped.
So, this is why I think it's if you're
uh for the Trump administration and the
Treasury moving on having uh an economic
policy that's in alignment, then I think
it's it's in the president's interest to
see
uh the case move on and let's let's go
forward with the Trump administration's
appointees at the Fed. In the meantime,
Rick Rieder of BlackRock was just on and
he was talking about how he would like
to see whoever comes into the Fed next
work with the federal government on
initiatives to try to get mortgage rates
lower, try to get benchmark rates lower
on the long end as well in order to keep
affordability under check. What
currently is in discussion on the House
Financial Committee given the fact that
this is got a fiscal overtone as well as
potentially a broad-based
different agency initiative. Well, I
think that you know, the best way to
make sure that takes place is to make
sure that inflation is well anchored.
And I think we do that by taking steps
to on the supply side to see that the
big beautiful bill from last year on the
tax side is fully implemented let the
Americans both in business and at home
in their households reap the benefits
of those important supply side tax
changes. And let's continue our work to
right-size regulation. Those things
would free up more capital to the
housing sector particularly. Six out of
10 and home construction loans are not
made by the biggest banks in the
country. They're made by banks under 10
million 10 billion dollars and that's
what I've had as a focus of the
committee. Let's have a deregulatory
supply side housing bill which the house
has passed that we're negotiating with
the Senate on.
Let's continue our effort to put in law
these tailored regulatory issues that
allow our regional banks and community
banks to thrive because they're under
the burden in a lot more significant way
when it comes to capital levels return
on investment than the biggest banks in
the country are. Putting that into law I
think does exactly that. It helps anchor
inflation moves capital into the economy
and I think that allows what? Short-term
rates to fall and and that in turn has a
a modest
impact on pulling down that 10-year rate
which is so important as a benchmark.
Let's finish on financial services. What
are you hearing about mythos?
Yeah. And how dangerous this might be.
What's your understanding of things
right now? Well, the committee has both
ranking member Waters and I are
concerned about that. We've actually
asked the Treasury you know for a brief
there. We we have noted um
the Treasury Secretary's engagement and
the Fed with the largest financial
institutions in the country. When I meet
with the private sector, I hear from
them that Claude is a very effective AI
partner and that they've been most
impressed with it. And that they want to
get into a mode where they can see and
determine any risks associated with the
mythos
product. And that speaks to my
philosophy about AI to begin with. We
ought to let the compliance sector,
meaning the supervisors, the regulators,
and the private sector work in a sandbox
type environment. You know, sheltered
from someone's network. Yeah. To see
what the impact of these large language
models are because they bring tremendous
benefits to consumers, to business
ahead of us, but they also have these
risks and we we should make sure that
all of our network operators have full
understanding.
>> They're making some bold claims ahead of
IPOs. They've got an interest to really
hype this up over the next 12 months.
It's hard to understand what's real and
what isn't. In the 30 seconds we have
left, do you foresee any hearings to get
some of these CEOs in front of you guys
and for the public to hear what's real
and what isn't? Well, we've can started
our hearings on AI both from a
regulatory compliance point of view and
we have done roundtables, meaning not
public hearings yet, with the business
sector, both the tech sector and the
users. And I think you'll see us
continue that work this year. Mr.
Congressman, [music] thank you very much
for that. Good to see you, sir. As
always, thank you. We'll be back soon.
Congressman French Hill there on the
latest [music] in the financial services
sector and with the Federal Reserve. Up
next, Joyce Chang of JP Morgan with risk
appetite remaining [music] strong.
Four-day winning run on the S&P 500,
12-day winning stretch on the Nasdaq
100, the longest going back to, I
believe, July 2017. [music]
Equity futures up so far this morning by
1/4 of 1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq, up
by 0.2. The Nasdaq over that period,
higher by more than 13%.
>> [music]
>> It has been a very, very sharp and
quick, fast recovery in this equity
market. As we [music] count you down to
the open, about 2 hours away, let's get
into some single names, some morning
movers. Danny Burger has more. Hey,
Danny. Hey, John. A painful morning for
Netflix, down 10.6% despite the solid
first quarter. The issue was their
outlook for second quarter. That got I
missed expectations, missed velocity
expectations. [music]
Given that they've been raising prices,
investors wanted more. We also learned
that Reed Hastings would be stepping
down [music] from the board. So, that's
down more than 10 and 1/2%. Elsewhere
this morning, we are looking at
Microsoft and Stellantis. Both of them
are up. Microsoft has been on a huge run
along with all software, [music] really.
But, specifically this morning's news,
the two of them teaming up to get more
AI into Stellantis' cars. [music] It is
a company that has long been trying to
effort a turnaround. Those shares up
2.7% in the pre-market. And finally,
some other earnings from Alcoa. Here we
had a miss despite the fact that the
price of aluminum is up 15% since the
war started in Iran. Instead, what you
got from this company was higher [music]
expenses and costs. JP Morgan pointing
out that they had some shipping issues,
some of the problems around that
stemming from bad weather. So, shares
down more than 2% in the pre-market,
[music] John.
Danny Burger, Danny, thank you. Thanks
for the update. More from Danny in the
next hour. All right now this morning,
President Donald Trump claiming that
Iran has made key concessions in
negotiations and a deal to end the war
could be announced soon. The president
saying the two sides may meet for a
second round of negotiations later on
this weekend. Elsewhere, the former
Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson calling
on the US to prepare a backup plan to
avoid a future collapse in Treasury
demand.
People say, "When are you going to get
the war?" I obviously don't know. It's
impossible to know. When we hit it, it
will be vicious. So, we have to prepare
for that. I think we need an emergency
break the glass plan so it it's ready to
go when
what what it it when we hit the wall.
Polson adding the US is better
positioned to weather the Iran war
disruption than anyone else. And
finally, the Anthropic CEO, Dario
Amodei, meeting with the White House
chief of staff, Susie Wells, today.
Axios reporting the two will discuss the
company's AI fight with the Pentagon.
The administration looking to make a
version of the company's AI model,
Methus, and more available to federal
agencies.
>> is really a confusing story if you're
looking at it by how the US government
writ large is using Anthropic. It's one
foot forward when it comes to trying to
use it in certain agencies, but it
really is a step back when it comes to
this massive fight that Anthropic is
having with the DOD. The DOD coming out
and saying it's a supply chain risk, as
we heard from Gregory earlier today from
CSIS. That's what you give shell
companies that are basically a Chinese
company that is trying to maybe get into
the supply chain in the United States.
So, this is a difficult moment. Susie
Wells potentially could try to
basically patch this up between Emil
Michael and Secretary Pete Buttigieg and
Dario Amodei because clearly the
government sees use cases for Anthropic
in other areas. How awkward is this that
so many people in government right now
are using Claude, are using all of the
Anthropic tools as an integral part of
not only national security, but also the
ongoing hot war in Iran. Yes, we have a
ceasefire right now. So, there is this
sort of awkward feeling of like, "Okay,
well, you know, we kind of have
designated you an evil child, but we
also are using you and need you. So, can
we just patch this up?" And there is
this sort of undertone right now in
Washington, D.C. here.
>> One thing I hear a lot about this fight.
I mean, Emil Michael joined us the
morning after he put out that tweet
saying Dario has a god complex. One
thing I hear from a lot of people is
that there's a ton of egos involved in
this on all sides. And maybe Susie Wells
can cut through those egos and actually
be the one that brokers this truce.
>> There's also a massive potential
conflict of interest and I've been going
on about this now for for weeks and
weeks and weeks. They have every
interest right now to hype up the
potential of this company going into the
IPO potentially later this year, which
is why governments need to aggressively
figure out what is real and what is
hype. Now, from what we understand from
financial services representatives in
the conversations we've all had over the
past few days, a lot of this
technological progress is real.
Much of it could be dangerous. It could
expose vulnerabilities in the financial
system. People are concerned about that
and looking to get ahead of it. Let's
hope they do. But on the other hand, we
can all see why they want Anthropic to
be the front page of every single
financial publication over the next
several months because there is funding
rounds potentially that are going to
take place over the next 12 and an IPO
that could take place as well. And it
could well be that this company has a
valuation approaching $1 trillion. There
is a very awkward conversation that
needs to be had, which is how do you
deal with a private sector that is so
far ahead technologically of a
government that needs to depend on it
while at the same time keeping it in
check. And a sense of financial interest
tied to said company at the same time
that it could potentially transform the
way we do business. And ultimately those
tensions are coming to the fore in some
of these disagreements, but I think that
the underlying one is correct. How do we
understand what's truth and what's
marketing? And that I think has been a
big challenge.
>> What's real and what's hype? Right now,
the secondary market those real record
highs are on the screen right again.
Added some weight to them on the S&P 500
on track for a third straight week of
gains. Market is optimistic about an end
to the war in Iran. Joyce Chang of JP
Morgan writes in the speed and magnitude
of the relief rally since the ceasefire
suggests that risk appetite remains
strong and easy financial conditions are
still a dominant force. Joyce joins us
now for more. Joyce, welcome to the
studio. Good morning. Great to be here.
It's good to see you. You've been here
the the few days, I believe, at the IMF
World Bank spring meetings. What's the
number one takeaway for you so far?
Cognitive dissonance. So, heightened
geopolitical risk, but also bullish
markets. Um, positioning for fat tail
risk are gone. We're going to get some
type of, you know, ceasefire agreement
soon, even if it's light on details. So,
I think that is the prevailing mood
right now. And then there's the AI
story. That's still taking a meaningful
step up. CapEx is still strong. Now, I
worry that that is the narrative now,
but I worry about the risk um around
that. You know, so the trade we're in
now is fat tails are gone. We're going
to get some kind of deal. A lot of
people looking at this like uh last
April. Is this going to be V-shape like
liberation day, like a trade war? But
you know, we have to really see how
these negotiations are going. Um, you
know, we have to understand the Iranian
position and whether this can be done
that quickly because the clock is
ticking. You know, we're going through
inventories. We have 13 million barrels
per day offline. So, if this goes longer
than what is market is expecting, that's
going to um lead to, you know, I think a
considerable amount of disappointment
here. So, people have reflected on the
2025 comparison, liberation day, April
25. I wonder the similarities in the
price action to say 2020. I've been
trying to work out if this is February
or April 2020. In February, we were at
all-time highs, oblivious to what was
about to happen. In April, we had this
vicious rally, hopeful about the future.
And if you were late to get on board,
you missed out on some big gains. Do you
think it's one or the other right now?
Well, I think that that's been the
pattern. And this is why this drawdown
wasn't comparable to COVID. It wasn't
comparable to Russia-Ukraine. It wasn't
even comparable to liberation day. It's
It's come back so quickly every time.
So, the drawdown this time was much
less. But it's very different, I think,
than um you know, liberation day because
um that was unilateral. You could sort
of begin to bring down the tariffs on
one side and take that pressure off.
This you need both sides at the table.
It is like COVID in that
we think the way that the pain spreads
is
you know not one shock. It's more
sequential. So it started in Asia, would
move to Africa and then to Europe. And
that's why the clock matters here
because you're running through a lot of
these inventories and reserves right
now. Probably taking about 6 million
barrels per day offline just since this
started. So that is something where the
market is thinking, well, something will
happen relatively quickly, you know, 3
weeks, 5 weeks at the maximum. But when
we look at negotiations with Iran that
they they have not been that quick. And
these issues are very complicated and we
don't really hear the Iranian side of
it. So I worry that the market, you
know, could be pricing in a lot out of
the headlines we're hearing, but it's
more complicated than that. I like your
framing of cognitive dissonance and I
wonder how much is dissonance between
the physical worlds and the financial
world. The idea that in the physical
world there are real constraints as
we've learned since COVID and beyond.
While in the financial world it seems
like there's a lot of liquidity and
actually financial conditions are really
easy. How do you square those two ideas
and just how easy financial conditions
really are? Well, if financial
conditions are easy, I mean, there is
demand not just for the S&P 500, but
because there is demand for
diversification. I think that emerging
markets will benefit here. Real assets
are benefit here. I mean, there are easy
financial conditions that are you know,
being put to work. But that doesn't
change the physical constraints or the
fact that it's very uneven as far as how
different regions are being impacted
with the Southeast Asian, South Asian
countries being impacted the most. But
part of this is, you know, we've had
this pattern where everybody said, "Oh,
well, you know, worst case it could be a
war or we could challenge that
independence." And those things all
happened and the market still rallied.
But you know, underpinning of all of
this really is the AI CapEx cycle. I
mean, you really can't talk about this
and you know, divorce it from that
picture. I mean, we have CapEx up from
14 to you know, more than 18%. Um, and
that we have not seen that that the um,
AI CapEx investment seems relatively war
resistant here and still very much
intact.
>> When we ask different executives of
banks, of other companies whether they
have some sort of provable return on
investment from AI, no one says yes. And
then so so at what point do you start
needing to see that in order to justify
the ongoing investment this way?
>> right now you're not at that
monetization phase where people are even
discussing it. They are still at the
demand the compute demand and just
meeting that need and I think with all
of the events that have happened over
the last few days, that's it's even a
more meaningful step up on those
questions. So, we you'll get there, but
I still think when you ask a lot of
people in the marketplace where we are
in a scale of 1 to 10 on where we need
to worry about um, the questions that
you're asking and they're saying, well,
we're still at this halfway mark. We're
just meeting the demand um, for compute
is is the number one investment that's
going in right now. So, I think markets
are, you know, looking at ceasefire,
looking at the AI cap cycle, have
actually quite a lot of cash on the
sidelines. And one thing I would say is
just from meeting with all of the policy
makers around the world, like we like
um, you know, we would do 10-year bonds
over 10-year treasuries. We think core
Europe came in with inflation at target,
relatively low unemployment, um, you
know, that um, this is one where you
know, Europe looks stable. Not saying
that you know, there's going to be a
single market or um, you know, as
something that is a massive change, but
I think investors are saying, look,
EMFX, emerging markets also has lower
fiscal deficits, um, you know, like sort
of don't have current account
imbalances. So, I see much more demand
for diversification. It's not just the
AI story. How different are your
conversations with whether or not you're
speaking to a participant from Asia or
the United States right now? So, I think
there's a lot of questions that we are
getting
from Asia and also from Europe on
whether Treasuries are a flight to
quality.
You know, when we've said dollar is a
safe and they said, "No, it's terms of
trade. There is no alternative." But
that diversification story is very real.
So, there is a big difference between
talking to, you know, US investors who
are really looking at the S&P 500 and
Asia where they are actually feeling
more of the physical pain of this and
asking about diversification and also
asking about, um, you know, are US
Treasuries a safe haven? Am I better off
buy high-grade credit rather than
buying, um, you know, sovereign debt? Or
if I'm going to buy sovereign debt,
should I do 10-year bonds instead of
10-year Treasuries? My response to that,
Joyce, would often be it depends on what
the risk is. If I'm facing a demand-side
shock, typically I'd expect the bonds to
perform to provide that risk mitigation.
But what we're seeing more frequently
over the last several years is
supply-side shocks. And I'm not sure
whether the risk mitigation
characteristics of Treasuries or for
developed market sovereign fixed income
performing quite the same way in the
face of supply-side shocks.
>> the breakdown of that correlation since
2020. And this is why we're really
seeing more of a demand for real assets.
But that's also been uneven. If you look
at what has happened with gold. So, I
think part of the reason you haven't
seen a lot of de-risking is that there
isn't a very good hedge that you can put
on um, in this environment. But there is
still the, um, appetite to look at AI
and look at that cap ex cycle and a
belief that that is a driver at least
through the end of this year and into
next year. And that, um, cap ex is
already sort of well, you know, in place
and in motion right now.
>> A lot of portfolios anchored to that
story, that's for sure. Joyce, it's good
to see you. Great to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you, Joyce
Chang there JP Morgan. Equity futures
right now on the S&P 500 high by quarter
of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Scarlet Fu is back with more. Hey
Scarlet. Good morning, John. President
Donald Trump says Israel Lebanon agreed
to attend a ceasefire. Trump says he
held quote excellent conversations with
[music] leaders of both countries. There
was no immediate confirmation from
Israel or Hezbollah.
UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer is again
facing calls to resign over his
appointment of Peter Mandelson as
ambassador to the US despite links to
China, Russia, and Jeffrey Epstein.
Starmer was forced to acknowledge on
Thursday that the Foreign Office gave
Mandelson security clearance even after
objections from vetting officials.
President Trump's 250-ft triumphal arch
clears a key hurdle. A federal arts
panel approving early designs for the
project. The arch will be built in honor
of the country's 250th anniversary and
will feature eagles, Lady Liberty,
[music] and a line from the Pledge of
Allegiance. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
Hey Scarlet, thank you. More from
Scarlet in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, striking a deal
with Iran.
The stock market is good, the oil prices
are coming down, and it's looking very
good that we're going to make a deal
with Iran, and it's going to be a good
deal. It's going to be a deal with no
nuclear weapons.
Up next, we'll catch up with the former
White House senior advisor Amos
Hochstein live from Washington. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities are positive. The S&P 500
higher adding to a record-breaking rally
once again. 12-day winning streak on the
Nasdaq, [music] 4 days on the S&P,
3-week winning streak potentially on the
S&P 500. Haven't seen that all year.
2-week losing [music] streak on WTI
edging lower for 2 consecutive weeks for
the first time since the war started.
>> [music]
>> Brent crude 96, WTI 91. Yeah, even
though you've got people like Steven
Cook coming out and saying that you
could see the Strait of Hormuz continue
to be closed for the next couple of
months. But right now, the market has
moved on. The extreme bad case hasn't
transpired yet. And so right [music]
now, financial markets are saying,
"Happy Friday. We're going to just take
it to somewhere else." Under Savannah's
this morning, striking a deal with Iran.
The blockade has been incredible. It's
held. The stock market is good. The oil
prices are coming down. And it's looking
very good that we're going to make a
deal with Iran. And it's going to be a
good deal. It's going to be a deal with
no nuclear weapons. They're not very
high if you look at the what they were
supposed to be in order to get rid of a
nuclear weapon with the danger that
entails. So the gas prices have come
down very much over the last 3-4 days.
So here's the latest this morning. The
US blockade of the Strait of Hormuz
entering its fifth day. The White House
signaling a second round of talks may
take place later this weekend. Joining
us to discuss is Amos Hochstein, the
managing partner at TWG Global and the
former White House senior advisor under
President Biden. Amos, it's good to see
you, sir. Great to see you all here.
Good morning. It's good to be with you
in Washington, D.C. for once. That's new
for us, I think. Right? Think so. Think
so. You're not looking at me, but yeah.
Okay, good. Got that out of the way.
Don't know why we went there. Amos,
[laughter] let's get to it. So we've got
the president saying we can secure a
deal pretty soon. And there might be
talks over the weekend. We've got
foreign leaders of Arab states and for
that matter Europeans as well, according
to our sources here at Bloomberg,
suggesting it could take 6 months.
What's a realistic time frame to secure
a peace deal with the Iranians?
Well, first it's always a question when
the president says very soon, is very
soon closer than almost almost complete,
which was his statement 4 weeks ago.
Uh or we're almost done, or we've won
the war. So I think the president's done
a very, very good job on the PR
marketing side. He understands markets
very well. He understands the psychology
of it. Markets operate based on optimism
and hope. As long as you give the market
hope and optimism, it will give you back
the love. And so he does that every sort
of usually on Sunday, Mondays, and
Fridays.
>> [laughter]
>> And no, it's true. I mean look the last
four weeks. And I And by the way, I
don't say this with cynicism. I actually
think as the president of the United
States he's managing a crisis.
And if the markets are down, his window
is narrower
and his capabilities and capacities and
capabilities is narrower. So and the
Iranians get leverage. So he's doing
everything he can to keep the markets up
and that's why for four weeks straight
he has been said he has said we're
probably done in the next few days.
Well, given the fact that oil prices are
depressed at the moment and you have
records on stock markets, does this mean
maybe he'll be more emboldened? We could
see a more aggressive Trump?
>> So let me just adjust what you said a
little bit.
Oil prices are not down.
On the screen they are.
>> the screen they are.
>> You're right, not physical but on
>> But the physical price of oil is not
down because despite all of this between
the two blockades,
there's nothing going through the Strait
of Hormuz now for several weeks.
I just came back from Hong Kong this
week
at Asia conference. And there they're
talking about which day are we going to
be shutting down airports.
Singapore has said this week that they
turned, you know, growth turned negative
because of the energy crisis. So this is
a regional crisis, not a global one at
the moment.
So oil prices are actually very, very
high in the real economy. You have
companies, manufacturers in Japan Toto
announced that some of the line of
production is coming off because they
don't have inputs. So but I do think
that because the the market down, the
oil prices on the screen down, for
President Trump, I don't know more
emboldened, but I think he feels tougher
that he has a better hand in the
negotiations.
So
he doesn't want to go back to fighting.
The Iranians they want to go back to
fighting.
But both sides don't want a deal that
makes it look like, you know, we lost. I
mean, if you take the the Vice President
Vance's comments from last week that
this was about 5-year versus 20-year
moratorium on enrichment, well, that's
basically
the Obama era JCPOA. That was 15 years.
Maybe that's the compromise.
>> Well, I hope not because the toll would
be terrible. The nuclear deal we could
have gotten before the war, the if we
get a victory that's the JC that the
straits open, that was a crisis we
didn't have.
So, that that's where I I hope we get to
a good solution here on nuclear, on
missiles, on regime, on support for
proxies cuz at least we would get
something out of this war.
When it comes to I mean, you had a
moment of reflection there. You like
what the Trump is doing. Do you almost
wish you were President Biden when
gasoline was $5 a gallon, went out and
jawboned the market?
I don't I Look,
we're very We are very different
presidents, very different
administrations.
And jawboning the market is part of the
job. I think this is a different place
where the market wants to be positive
because the AI story is such a strong
story. And you what you don't want is a
disruption here on the physical
old-school market to disrupt the future
type of market.
>> Which is something that we experienced
just about 6 years ago. I'm just
wondering based on what you're seeing
over in Asia, how long of a time frame
do we have before that starts to migrate
first to Europe and then to the United
States in not necessarily the form of
energy in the United States, but maybe
in the form of chips, maybe in the form
of other products that are coming from
Asia.
I think you're going to see it in in
sort of the manufacturing of physical
goods, right? Aluminum prices are
really, really high. Steel prices are
going to go up. But it's going to take
time to come here, a few more weeks. It
takes Energy crises are the slowest
moving crisis because when they happen,
when a disruption happens, I still have
ships on the water coming to me for
several weeks. Then I have inventories
that have to go through. So, it takes a
really long time to go through the
physical market that where I get rid of
the inventories that are already there
before the shortage. But once it hits,
it's really vicious, right? Because then
there's no There's no ship right now on
the water that's going to Asia. So, if
you're a country that's lost its last
that's gotten last shipment, you're
like, "Damn it. I still have now, even
if the war ends and the straits open, I
still have three, four, five weeks after
that before I get anything." So, and
think about it. A A plane leaving the
United States going anywhere can't take
its fuel with it. So, even if we have
jet fuel in the United States, it's not
like I carry my supplies with me. If the
airport where I'm going doesn't have it,
then I'm not doing it. Lufthansa in
Europe just announced what, today,
yesterday? They're cutting a whole bunch
of flights. Not because they've already
run out, because you don't want to get
to the point of running out. So, that's
how it's going to move across from Asia
to here. You have multiple countries at
four-day workweeks to conserve energy.
>> Across Asia? Right? So, at some point
the question's going to be to the market
if the purchasing power in Asia for
American services and goods will matter
at any point. Or maybe we're just
becoming more really America first and
alone where we're building an island.
Uh and and how doable is that? Amos,
it's good to see you. Good to see you,
too. Sobering thoughts, but good to see
you. Amos Hochstein there, the managing
partner, TWG Global, and former White
House senior advisor under President
Biden. Reminds me so much, just echoes
of COVID.
Obviously, there are massive differences
between now and then. Certainly, the
nature of the crisis is vastly
different. But just the price action, I
just remember February 2020 at all-time
highs on the S&P 500, if my memory
serves me well, February 20th.
Going into that weekend, and then things
started to shut down in northern Italy
and that's when the US side of things
started to wake up to the potential of
what was going to happen. I don't know
if we see that kind of wake-up call, how
close we are to that kind of wake-up
call, but certainly reminds me of that
period.
>> me of the disconnect between the
financial world where everyone says buy
the dip and the physical world where
people are saying, "We don't have what
we need." And that's a problem. Equity
futures right now the S&P up by a
quarter of 1% up next Alex Altman of
Barclays, [music] the former US Deputy
National Security Advisor Daleep Singh,
Nathan Sheets of Citi, Jason Thomas of
Carlyle. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around [music] the
corner.
We're probably in the sort of global
relief rally.
>> Markets are pricing in a resolution.
Equity markets have started living in
the future. [music]
>> This type of environment, you just stay
in large caps.
>> There is a short-term look-through in
the market. That's what keeps the stock
market going.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from the nation's capital this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now and your scores the price action
looks like this. Equity futures [music]
adding some weight to the rally on the
S&P 500 on course poised for a
three-week winning streak on the S&P for
the first time in 2026. All-time [music]
highs and another close above 7K in
yesterday's session up another third of
1% so far this morning. On the Nasdaq a
12-day winning run could [music] become
day 13 on the Nasdaq 100 higher by 0.3%.
>> If we see day 14, then all of a sudden
[music] we're going back to 2014 since
the last time we've seen a streak like
this. It has been one of the fastest
reversals in market history as people
take a look at what had been a potential
[music] big disruption. Still is the
potential for a big disruption, but
people have moved on. I'm struck by how
multifaceted this rally really has been.
You talked about software. We saw the
biggest one-week [music] increase in
software stocks going back since the
dot-com bust. So, you really can see a
huge enthusiasm to buy [music] things
perceived as cheap. So, the market
basically declared mission over, mission
accomplished, the war is ending.
>> [music]
>> The fact of the matter is, and I'm
really struck by Ammos Hochstein's
conversation just now about how long
this might be [music] the straightest
moves. And all the mitigation we've
already seen take place in Asia and what
is going to be happening in Europe. Some
airlines are actually having to cut
routes because of the access to jet
[music] fuel. And the fact of the matter
is what we see on our screens is not the
reality on the ground when it comes to
physical barrels and what is going on in
the oil market.
>> Joyce Chang at JP Morgan [music] put it
well, cognitive dissonance.
Kind of sums up the story of the past 2
months, through March and through much
of [music] April. And I think sums up
our conversations quite well. When we
speak to someone on Wall Street, we will
in about 2 minutes time,
>> [music]
>> they'll say the outlook for risk right
now is positive. This market can run. It
has done. When you speak to a policy
maker [music] down in the nation's
capital, in Washington, DC, particularly
policy makers from outside of the United
States, [music] they are immensely
concerned about what's happening in the
physical world. It seems as though the
market doesn't want to price in tail
risk because they've been penalized for
pricing in tail risk for year after year
after year. And yet, the tail risks
[music] are getting fatter and fatter
and the potential for another COVID type
of supply disruption is getting [music]
very real for a number of finance
ministers who we've been speaking to you
down in DC. Stocks are positive by
quarter of 1% on the S&P. [music] Coming
up this hour, Alex Altman of Barclays
with stocks looking to build on a
record-breaking run. The former US
Deputy National Security Advisor Daleep
Singh [music] as the war in Iran weighs
on the global economy. And Nathan Sheets
of Citi Research on the path ahead for
interest rates. We begin this hour with
stocks adding to gains as investors
watch for the next move in the US-Iran
ceasefire. Alex Altman of Barclays
writing, "There remains a decay profile
to risk. However, the longer that Iran
does not retaliate, the more positive it
is for risk in the market, can re-rate."
Alex joins us now for more. Alex,
welcome to the show. Just translate what
you mean by that and what visibility
you've got on the situation abroad and
what it means for your outlook.
Thanks, John. So, really simply, we were
looking at this whole situation almost
like a reverse merger arb at the end of
March.
And what I mean by that is is that the
market was effectively decaying lower
every day as it was pulling towards a
base case that there was going to be
escalation of this conflict. And we knew
that positioning was very light. As you
know, we we've we've talked about this
on the show historic historically. And
so, in any eventuality of a resolution,
ceasefire, basically what we've
effectively seen over the course of of
this month to date is that the
positioning dynamic wouldn't be able to
keep keep up with the changing
narrative. And that was going to
effectively force a dramatic repricing
of risk. And that's exactly what we've
seen today. I mean, if you look at the
rolling 15-day return of the S&P, it's
about 15% it's around about 11%, which
is putting us around about the 99th
percentile of returns or going back to
1999. So, this is pretty dramatic as the
positioning is scrambling to keep up
with that changing narrative.
So, Alex, typically when we talk about
options decay, there's a set date for
expiry.
There isn't a set date for expiry of
this particular conflict and it isn't
just in one man's hands. It's in
multiple people's hands at the moment,
Alex. Does that complicate things on how
we value this market?
It does to a degree and I think that
ultimately the forward returns of the
S&P have have become skinnier now. We
have to acknowledge that when we've gone
from 64, 6500 all the way up to
7100 in S&P futures now. And so, with
that, I think it's going to create a
little bit more differentiation. It's
also going to create a more balanced
risk reward for for for equity risk. But
we should again shouldn't lose sight of
of two things. Number one is that
positioning dynamic and we have to
acknowledge that systematic positioning
so, non-discretionary investors that
were effectively removing some of the
equity length are now having to put it
back on and they haven't been able to do
that. That's going to create an
underlying bid to risk. The second one
is is that just that differentiation.
So, you mentioned earlier about how
software stocks have have seen a
significant rally. There are pockets of
value which investors are effectively
going to go after in anticipation of a
catch-up trade and and we still still
think there's opportunities there,
certainly within parts of the commodity
space and within indeed within the
domestic US equity market as well.
Alex, we're seeing dispersion in the
tech space that resembles what we saw in
the dot-com bust in March 2000. And this
is raising some concerns for some people
that maybe it has the feelings of late
stage in terms of the tech enthusiasm.
Do you see anything like that sort of
concentration risk and a feeling that
the market is becoming less stable?
I think we have to acknowledge that the
market is becoming less stable, but I
would actually argue that's driven less
by necessarily dot-com analogs. I mean,
ultimately the market is trading on
around about 20 21 times, but the
earnings growth profile of the market
doesn't really look like the dot-com. I
mean, bearing in mind we're still
forecasting as a consensus Bloomberg
consensus as about $339 of next next
12-month EPS. So, that's about 18%
growth. So, we could debate whether you
believe that number or not, but that
ultimately puts us into a quite
different realm to dot-com in that
regard. Um I would say that bigger
problem is in terms of the fragility is
the fact that we've had a ballooning of
fast money AUM assets under management.
And so, that's just naturally driving
more velocity within the market and just
pushing money in and out at a quicker
speed than ever we've seen before. And
that's driving factor volatility, market
volatility as well. And that I think is
a is a different problem to what we
necessarily saw say 20 years ago in the
dot-com bust. But we have to acknowledge
it and that's one of the things that you
know, we as a team try to navigate and
sort of you know, help our clients with.
So, Alex, can you give us sort of a
cheat sheet for what this weekend's
going to be like for you and your team
given the fact that we are going to get
some sort of discussion of talks in
Islamabad, and we could see a breaking
down in the peace agreement or an
extension. Either one could potentially
have a really significant ramification
for markets. And how violent could the
moves be on either side? How asymmetric,
given how fast-moving the liquidity has
been?
Well, again, we have to acknowledge that
they we're not completely out the woods
with this. Um I would say that client
discussions have not entirely moved on
from the Iran debate here in the US, but
they've certainly evolved a little bit,
just trying to look beyond just the near
term.
There is without doubt an anticipation
that a ceasefire is going to be
extended, and that this big effectively
moves to a backburner narrative.
Something that's still going to rumble
in the background, just for example,
like tariffs did. Well, tariffs still
haven't gone away, but it's not like we
talk about them every day. So, I think
there's an acknowledgement within the US
investment community that there is still
a fat tail, and it is fat, and it could
see significant wobbles in US equity
risk. But you have to counter that with
what we're hearing on the ground, the
negotiation that's going on, the
appetite both domestically and
politically to continue a war
or a conflict in the Middle East. And
also, let's not forget the congressional
war powers act as well. War potentially
limit the ability for the administration
to continue waging a kinetic war going
forward. So, yeah, of course, there
there's still a physical problem with
oil. We're going to be lingering with
commodity issues. It's one of the
reasons why, as a team, we still really
like the commodity narrative, not just
oil, but just the broader commodity
theme of every man for himself needs to
build a strategic stockpile of copper,
aluminum, cobalt, everything, you know,
fertilizers. I think that's a very
interesting thematic that we can still
play out with, and portfolios
should include. But beyond that, I think
the base case for investors right now is
the fact that they're looking beyond
just the the that that fat tail, and
acknowledging this is probably just
going to linger in the background, and
they need to just get back to business
and studying stocks in the good
old-fashioned way.
So, Al, you're basically saying they can
live with this quo because you're right.
The appetite in the United States and
Iran right now is not to continue
fighting, but there's no real appetite
for serious work on a nuclear deal given
what the Iranians are willing to take
and that is a huge red line for the
United States.
Again, I think there's a lot going on in
the background and I'm not really in a
position to comment specifically about
how these negotiations are going. Uh
as we talked about the last time I I
came on this show, you either believe in
a path of either escalation or
de-escalation. And and I really I know
it's I know there's obviously a huge
shade of gray
between those two outcomes, but we as a
team have always believed that this
administration has sought a path of
de-escalation for several weeks now. And
the back channels would very much
indicate that. So, you're probably right
that the deal around nuclear is not
going to be easy. It's going to be
fraught with difficulty and I imagine
there will still be bumps along the
road, something which we talked about in
previous pieces. But ultimately, the
market will still look through it if it
understands that there's still an
improvement in the flow of traffic.
That's really is what it cares about,
that traffic flow through in Hormuz, the
release of oil back into the market, the
normalization between the physical
market and the futures strip, and
ultimately as well, just monitoring what
the futures market in oil is doing. If
we can go back to a even an 80 handle
oil environment, the US economy is
absolutely fine with that. I mean, let's
be very clear, right? Between 2011 and
2014, US the US economy averaged 95 to
$100 oil. And during that period,
average GDP growth of 2.2% and the S&P
cumulatively
went up over 60% over those 3 years. And
although I'm not going to try to make
the comparison as exactly the same, but
in today's money, that would be $130 oil
average. Right? So, if we're talking
about $80 or even $90 oil, I think it's
something that the US economy can
comfortably stomach. And yes, of course,
there is still inflation considerations,
there's margin considerations, too. That
339 VPS for the S&P probably needs to
come down a smidge, but the point being
is it is manageable and I think people
often lose sight of that.
Alex, it's good to see you. Thanks for
reflecting on some of the situation that
we're going through right now. Alex
Almen there of Barclays. Alex of course
is right, any dollar crude in this
country is not a problem at all. It's
not just price though. It's not just a
price issue abroad, particularly in
Asia. It's just outright shortage
problem right now that they're
confronting. Whether they can afford it
or not, they can't get access to some of
that product.
>> Exactly, and it's not just when it comes
to oil or jet fuel, it's LPGs what they
it's what India is basically tethered to
if they want to have cooking supplies.
This is a huge problem for Asia and
we're just insulated from it in the
United States. We're not feeling it the
same way, but very soon Europe is going
to be feeling some of those troubles as
well.
>> The US at the moment feels like a bit of
an island, not just in financial
markets. Well, to me it just feels like
AI investment seems to be clouding and
you know, sort of giving fairy dust over
anything that might give anyone some
worries. So every time that I say,
"Well, what about this?" People are
like, "What are you not looking at and
understanding about AI?" And it feels
like that is the source of this
incredible cognitive dissonance.
>> All time highs on the S&P 500 up another
quarter of 1% with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Scarlet Foo has more.
Hey, Scarlet. Hi, John. President Donald
Trump says the war in the Middle East
could end soon. Trump says it may not be
necessary to renew a two-week ceasefire
with Iran before it ends early next week
because the war could be over before
then.
>> [music]
>> He also said the US and Iran could meet
for a second round of negotiations this
weekend.
Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei is meeting
with White House Chief of Staff Susy
Whales later today. Axios reports that
the two will discuss the [music]
company's AI fight with the Pentagon.
The Trump administration is looking to
make a version of Anthropic's latest AI
model Mythos available [music] to
federal agencies.
And Apple is losing another top leader.
The company's marketing executive is
retiring after 31 years [music] at
Apple. Stan Eng helped create the
original Apple Watch and launched the
original iPod. That is our Bloomberg
brief. John?
Scarlett Fu, thank you. More from
Scarlett in about 30 minutes from now.
Up next on the program, the morning
calls, plus the former US Deputy
National Security Advisor Daleep Singh
joins us as the war in Iraq weighs on
the global economy. Live [music] from
Washington D.C. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
We've had a earnings led
melt up in the stock market for a while
actually. The earnings expectations
continue to increase at a faster pace.
So, they they analysts didn't get the
war memo and they didn't get any
feedback from the companies they follow
that this is
a concern for earnings
anytime soon.
That's happened to drive equity markets
higher compressing multiples, earnings,
and the outlook for earnings
>> [music]
>> improving
through the duration of this war, which
is unbelievable. And underpinning this
run of the equity market, the S&P
[music] 500 at all-time highs up another
4/10 of 1% this morning. On the Nasdaq
up by 0.4. If you speak to people on
Wall Street right now, the future's
bright for the equity market anchored by
this very robust, resilient earning
story. If you speak to policy makers at
the IMF World Bank spring meetings,
let's just say they're not in the same
frame of mind of some [music] of these
traders on Wall Street.
>> Yeah, you know why they're not? It's
because you see the IMF delegates who
are having to have these meetings with
different [music] finance ministers who
have their hands out, who are saying,
"Please, give us money because we don't
know how to buy physical crude to keep
our economies open." [music]
That is the reality on the ground and
you can see that in the corners and
markets are saying, "You're a small
economy. You're relatively [music] poor.
The average is sort of discount you
completely. We're moving on." They're
rationing. They're telling people to
stay at home, they're asking them to
ride their bikes. Europe is starting to
cut routes.
>> [music]
>> There is real physical shops shocks
happening in Asia and Europe, and at the
moment the United States is just
insulated and Wall Street is just
looking through. Even with the streets
still closed.
>> That is not a problem right now for the
[music] S&P 500 or for the Nasdaq 100
for that matter. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Barclays lowering its
price target [music] on Netflix warning
the earnings reaction may quote persist
beyond the short term. That stock is
down by more than [music] 10%. Your
second call from JP Morgan raising its
price target on Charles Schwab expecting
Schwab's net interest margin to expand
throughout the year. And your third and
final call from BNP Paribas upgrading
Exxon Mobil to neutral and boosting its
price target expecting oil prices to
remain above pre-war levels even after
the recent pullback. And they right
there, that right there, is your third
morning call. Let's get to the war. Waen
gone global economies, Dalip Singh, the
former US Deputy National Security
Advisor writing the war and its effects
have reduced global growth estimates for
2026 by about 50 basis points with US
growth appearing particularly resilient.
Dalip joins us now for more. Dalip, good
morning. Good to see you. Good to see
you. Welcome back to Washington. Lisa
was talking about the average. The
average has come down a bit. Within that
average, where are you seeing the
greater hits?
The greater hits will be in Asia and
Europe. But look, I mean I
I I don't know if any of you can tell me
with a straight face that the world is
safer, more secure, and more prosperous
because of this war.
I mean, we know that deficits will be
larger, inflation will be higher, we'll
have less and later monetary easing,
interest rates have risen, growth will
be slower, supply chain disruptions are
certain. Those are just approximate
economic effects. Then we look at the
strategic ledger. The IRGC still
entrenched, more embittered, still got
1,000 pounds of enriched uranium that
can make 10 crude atomic bombs.
Uh they have more money, twice as much
energy revenues per day than they did
before the war. They control the mother
of all choke points. America's key
adversaries, Russia and China, they're
winners. America's alliances
dysfunctional.
So look, I I'm not here to tell a
doomsday story,
>> Sounds like one.
>> equity valuations surpass the pre-war
baseline,
I'm out.
You think the world's changed?
Permanently? No, no, no. So look, I mean
I think big picture.
We're caught in a tug-of-war between two
profound and opposing forces. On the one
hand, we have a once-in-a-century
productivity boom led by general-purpose
technologies. Not just AI, synthetic
biology, fusion, etc. But on the other,
we've got the forces of fragmentation
within and across countries that are
pulling the world apart. So we'll have
more frequent conflict, we'll have more
weaponization of choke points, we'll
have more energy insecurity, uh and
we'll have more erosion of institutional
norms. Markets are
more able to price the right tail than
the left tail.
But I think sometimes you got to look up
from your Bloomberg screen and just open
your eyes. The world is not better off
because of this war. What do you think
is just could be a memorandum of
understanding between Iran and the
United States? Not a serious
comprehensive deal, but what could be
the like a base case that can come out
of talks? I've never heard of an MOU
settling a war, but you know, there is
there is deal space and I understand
I understand why there's relief in the
markets from the lows.
Uh you can imagine a deal in which Iran
agrees to ship its 1,000 lbs of enriched
uranium to a third-party custody, Russia
or China, for example. I can imagine
phased sanctions relief in exchange for
a phased reopening of the strait.
I can imagine some type of pledge by the
US to not seek regime change in Iran and
perhaps to have China as a guarantor of
the deal. So it can come together. I
think there's political appetite on both
sides, but my point is is on valuations.
How much is that relief worth? Well,
where if we were to get something like
that, a deal like that, is that is that
not better than where we were before
this war with Iran? Well, I'm not
talking about a full reopening of the
strait.
Uh th- this was not a choke point that
it was a latent risk prior to the war.
Now it's an active risk.
And it's not the only choke point in the
world. We've got a lesson that's been
learned from this conflict, which is
that you can use asymmetric force, very
inexpensive asymmetric force, to
weaponize an economic choke point and
stand down the greatest military in the
world. Think about APIs,
pharmaceuticals. Think about graphite.
Think about lagging edge chips. Think
about all the critical minerals in which
China has a choke point. Those could all
be weaponized. And that's going to be a
lingering cost of this war among all the
other factors that I mentioned. You said
several times, I'm out. It's a valuation
story. Talking about the record high
after record high. As vice chair of
PIMCO, are you saying actively sell this
market because ultimately it is not
accounting for some of these risks?
>> No, I'm not saying actively sell, but I
mean we're Again, we're talking about uh
an equity market that is now effectively
judging the world to be a better place
to invest than it was before the war.
That's That's all I'm saying. I fully
understand the initial conditions prior
to this war, very favorable. I I still
believe that US growth is relatively
well insulated. AI cap backs and wealthy
consumption,
it's reflexive. They're much more
sensitive to asset prices than oil
prices. And you know, probably have more
fiscal stimulus. So, I understand why
we've recovered. And I've been calling
for a recovery since late March. But
we're now getting beyond the point in
equity markets where I can rationalize
these valuations. You know, markets
don't al- always give you an undistorted
lens through which to see the world as
it is. And that's what this moment is.
There is a cold, hard truth about
markets, which is people will look at
what potentially has changed going
forward. And it could be things like
maybe the diminished use of the dollar
should there be a greater use of the
Chinese renminbi in the the East. It
could be that there is persistently
higher inflation for higher sort of term
premium or just this idea that yields
might stay here. What are the
fundamental aspects that you think have
changed in markets as a result of this
conflict?
>> So, I mean, just to be clear, I think
dollar primacy is going to remain
intact, but the exorbitance of the
dollar's privilege will continue to
diminish. I think in terms of this war,
there's a real historical irony. 1974,
that's when Treasury Secretary Simon
flew to Jeddah and he said, "How about
you denominate your oil sales in dollars
and you recycle those dollars into US
Treasuries." The petrodollar system is
born and it reinforced dollar primacy
for a generation. Now, you know, some
portion of the oil that's still being
sold through the Strait is being
denominated in crypto and more
importantly RMB.
Is that a psychological inflection
point? You know, I can't judge, but does
it chip away at exorbitant privilege?
Yes, no question.
These are important issues. So, let's go
through them one by one. The erosion of
dollar primacy, one. Two, you alluded to
this earlier in the conversation, an
increase of the frequency of supply side
shocks potentially in our future beyond
this particular crisis. I think this
raises big questions about the role of
fixed income in a portfolio. Mhm. What
do bonds do for you if that's the world
we've got over the next several years?
Well, you're still going to find
protection in shorter duration
instruments. You're still going to find
value in credit that's well secured and
high quality. Um I think when you go out
the curve, you've got to start worrying
about, you know, some of these second
order effects that I mentioned, the
persistence of inflation above target, a
world of fiscal dominance. The shocks on
the supply side will keep coming. That
should raise the risk premium, the term
premium in a long duration bonds. And I
think we're going to start to see the
yield curve steepen out as a
consequence. Non-dollar assets should
continue to outperform real physical
assets,
particularly those that are important to
shore up economic security where supply
chain vulnerabilities persist. Those are
all commercial opportunities and I think
that's where the money will go. What
kind of numbers are you thinking about
the long end of the curve? I don't
expect to pinpoint a specific number,
but a range, a new elevated 10-year
yield. So, I mean, I the way I think
about it is I think our star has
probably risen due to the productivity
tailwinds that we have, let's say, about
1%. I think the new kind of normal, I
call it the old normal, actually, for
inflation is about 2 and 1/2 percentage
points. And then I think 100 basis
points of term premium makes sense. So,
I get a 450 10-year note as kind of
being fair value.
>> Not too far away from where we are at
the moment at 4:30. Daleep is going to
see you. Lots to think about. The former
US Deputy National Security Advisor,
Daleep Singh there, thinking more about
450, and 430 is where we're trying to
get at the moment.
>> Yeah, the idea of volatility and
inflation is something that really keeps
popping up, and how do you count for uh
some sort of haven asset if you aren't
sure what shock you're actually trying
to hedge against? And I think that keeps
coming up in conversations. The people
who are the defenders of the 60/40, and
people who are saying, "You know what? I
think I'm just going to buy a stash of
aluminum and a barrel of oil." Well,
when Daleep Singh talks, it's very
complicated to understand the position
the US government is in right now. The
Strait of Hormuz was open opened before
this conflict, and now
it is part of one of their red lines, a
negotiating tactic, and it's the huge
point of leverage this regime has.
>> Stocks are positive once again, 60
minutes out from the open, and about up
by a quarter of 1%. Coming up on the
program, Nathan Sheets, Citi Research,
on the path ahead for interest rates.
Plus, Danny's back. Danny's got your
morning movers. Netflix shares
continuing to slide on weak guidance.
That stock is down by more than 10%.
[music]
Live from Washington, D.C. Let's check
out the price action together. Start
with equities on the S&P 500, on the
Nasdaq, on the Russell. On the S&P 500,
you'll notice we're at the session
highs, up by 0.5%.
This [music] story dropping from Axios
just moments ago. The US and Iran
negotiating over a three-page plan to
end the war with one element under
discussion being the US would release
$20 billion in frozen Iranian funds in
return for Iran giving [music] up its
stockpile of enriched uranium. This
according to two US officials and two
additional sources briefed on the talks.
You notice equities are out to session
highs on the Russell up by 0.7%. [music]
If you check out the bond market, yields
are a little bit lower. The 10-year is
down by two basis points or so. The
two-year down to 375. In commodities,
we're now down by more than 5% on WTI.
WTI actually breaking down into the
[music] 80s, 89.86. Brent crude at 94
approaching 95. [music] Just a break of
95 moments ago. Down by more than 4% on
the session. So, the headline dropping
from Axios just moments ago that the US
is considering a $20 billion cash
[music]
for uranium deal with Iran. So, this
would be very interesting. This would be
really the first [music] step to a more
negotiated peace deal. When it comes to
that, you mentioned uranium, but this
would be basically the United States
paying for Iran [music] to get rid of it
or giving them some relief so these
frozen funds. They have a lot of frozen
funds over the years in these accounts
that a lot of this money has been used
only for humanitarian aid. This could
potentially mean a wind-down of the war,
but you have to think [music] the
Iranian hawks in this administration are
not going to be happy with that kind of
deal.
>> It's a very modern cash for clunkers,
but look, we're looking forward to some
sort of resolution maybe this weekend.
Every time that we get some sense that
things aren't getting worse, markets
rally and we can see that. There's sort
of this drip, drip, drip of better than
expected news and people are welcoming
it in markets.
>> Let's run through it again. So, if
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equity futures out to session
highs about 60 minutes away from the
opening bell. Some reporting from Axios
just moments ago suggesting the US and
Iran are negotiating over a three-page
plan to end the war with one element
under discussion being that the US would
release 20 billion in frozen Iranian
funds in return for Iran giving up its
stockpile of enriched uranium. That
reporting coming from Axios just moments
ago driving equities out to new highs up
by 0.6 on the S&P [music] on the Russell
up by 0.8.
We'll get you more on that story in just
a moment. Let's get you some single
names and morning movers. [music] Danny
Burger has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John, it's been a really good week
for software. In fact, the S&P software
index is up 13.6%
so far this week. That puts it on track
for its best course of a run since 2001.
And today, the gains keep coming.
Salesforce, Adobe, ServiceNow all up at
least 2 and a third percent. To be
clear, no specific reason, no specific
news for why software is rebounding this
week, but it's caught in on the general
risk-on tone. Maybe it's short covering,
[music] maybe it's defying. Either way,
again, a very strong week continues
today. Elsewhere, we had some regional
banks reporting results. Ally Financial
beating across the board, and it was all
due to loans for cars. Despite the fact
that gasoline prices are higher, there's
concerns about how the consumer's
feeling. That did not matter. People
were taking out loans to buy cars. Those
shares up 2 and 1/2%. Truist a little
bit weaker. They reported results. Their
credit losses were higher than expected.
Finally, Netflix a disappointment for
their second quarter outlook. There were
high expectations given that they've
raised prices. They're working on this
ad-supported tier. They're doing more
live events. We also learned that Reed
Hastings will be stepping down. Those
shares down to 9 and 1/2%. John.
Danny, thank you. Danny Burger there
with your morning movers. Look out for
Danny at the top of the hour in about 30
minutes time to guide you into the
opening bell. The opening bell less than
1 hour away. If you are just joining us
moments ago out to new session highs on
the equity market. We've been encouraged
by the communication coming from the US
side for much of the last week that we
were getting closer and closer to a
deal. This drop from Axios just moments
ago that the US and Iran are negotiating
over a three-page plan to end the war
with one element under discussion being
that the US would release $20 billion in
frozen Iranian funds in return for Iran
giving up its stockpile of enriched
uranium. And we're a big question here
as to whether the Iranians would
actually get on board with a deal that
sounds like that one.
>> Well, the issue right now for Iran is
that their economy is absolutely
battered and they need the money and
they are really dire for that cash. So,
potentially this could be some sort of
off-ramp. And also in this Axios report,
they're talking about maybe meetings
taking place once again this weekend in
Islamabad maybe on Sunday. So, when the
president says he's not looking to
extend the ceasefire which ends next
week, April 22nd, because he thinks a
deal will be before then, maybe this is
the deal he's he's talking about.
>> Handel jumping in front of the camera
for us to break down some of the details
of this reporting again to set the stage
for us going into the weekend. Tyler has
more. Hey, Tyler.
Hey, John. Well, at this point, this
reporting from Axios comes on the heels
of President Trump yesterday indicating
that progress had been made when it
comes to concessions in Iran's nuclear
program. As you've already outlined
though, we have not gotten confirmation
yet from Iran that any of this progress
is happening and at least publicly the
sides have appeared to be pretty far
apart on some of these issues. But,
Axios reporting that in exchange for
Iran giving up its already enriched
material, we could see this unfreezing
of about $20 billion in Iranian assets.
reporting goes on to say that both sides
have still put forward their separate
positions on this long maintained
including that the US would like to be
able to retain this stockpile while Iran
has previously said that they would like
to see it diluted. We saw that for
example in the latest round of talks
before the war when the two sides had
been meeting in Geneva. It is going to
be something to watch for here because
as Anne-Marie has mentioned, we know
that Iran would like to see this money
flow through.
throughout these negotiations is that
there has to be an unfreezing of these
assets and there has to be sanctions
relief. So, something to watch for but
definitely consider to be forward moving
progress after President Trump indicated
maybe he won't need to extend that
ceasefire deal.
It's on and have we confirmed there will
be another round of talks between the US
and Iran over the weekend? Is that a
promise?
Well, at this point President Trump had
alluded to that potential and we heard
from the White House earlier this week
that they were working on another round,
but we still haven't gotten that firm
confirmation. White House press
secretary Caroline Levitt did say
earlier this week that if the in-person
talks were bound to happen, they would
be held and hosted again by Pakistan as
the White House has actually thanked
Pakistan for being a mediator in this
conflict. We know that a lot needs to
happen here in order for there to be an
agreement as Bloomberg News previously
reported that we could be looking at a
potential two-week extension that
essentially would be to allow
negotiators at the technical level to
work out more of these details before
senior officials ultimately meet
face-to-face.
Tana Kendal, Tana thank you. Thanks for
breaking that down. Check out crude. 95
on Brent, a break of 90 on WTI, 89 on
WTI crude and down by somewhere between
4 to 5% on the session so far. It's
going to be a lot of hope going into the
opening bell. Well, there's been a lot
of hope already and people are looking
to any kind of resolution. I wonder how
asymmetric the risk is given the
build-up to these talks and given how
much markets have rallied. Should there
be any kind of setback versus the
opposite and we're seeing that kind of
engagement with the rally even further
this morning.
>> Nice and Shay City Research joins around
the table. Nathan, good morning. Good
morning. How much damage are we doing in
the meantime?
Well, I think there is
significant pressure on the global
economy at the moment. When you think
about closure of the Strait of Hormuz,
we always thought of that as kind of a
third rail for for the global economy.
And by our estimates, something on the
order of 10 million barrels a day of oil
is shut in as a result of that and if
that persists then I think that we could
see oil prices well in excess of
anything that we've seen so far. And
>> [clears throat]
>> meaningful meaningful markdowns to US
and global economic growth and
appreciable recession risk. I think the
key question and this is where the
markets are is will this persist and if
we get a deal I don't think the markets
are so interested in the exact details
of the deal.
>> Sure. They just want to see a cessation
of these pressures and my sense is that
this is a market that is ready to rip
once it gets kind of an all clear war
signal from
from the administration and from the
Iranians.
>> The sense that we get from so many
market participants is that this is
avoidable because it's so bad it has to
be avoided. Steve Woz the Fed rates had
put it nicely. He wrote the following
our collective experience has taught us
that outcomes that are economically and
politically untenable tend not to
materialize. Is that how you think about
the situation? I think that that is a
reasonable argument but on in addition
and on top of that I would also say that
the signals that we're getting from the
Trump administration
are that they are not
looking for this to be an extended
conflict. You know where this is
different than the tariffs however is
with the tariffs President Trump could
calibrate them and turn them up and turn
them down and the effects of the tariffs
would follow necessarily.
Here there's another party in play and
that is the Iranians and we've seen that
Iran
is not always cooperative or
predictable. So there is an extra
dimension of risk associated with this
relative to
the tariffs but on balance it seems that
the thrust of of
and kind of the the the narrative over
time has gravitated towards some kind of
a cessation or a easing of these
pressures.
>> Even if there is some sort of easing in
the pressures, how much has the backdrop
changed with an increased instance of
supply shocks? Sal Khan was just on and
he was painting a pretty negative
picture of the world. You guys were, you
know, in an in an argument ahead of
that. You were taking the other side of
it, but how do you sort of gauge what
that looks like through an economic
lens? When I think about this, are there
disruptions that are likely to persist?
Absolutely. But how for how long? And I
think that many of these
near-term challenges, if we have a deal,
maybe they persist for a month or 6
weeks. But by the end of the year, we're
going to be talking about other things.
And I think the big question from a
macro standpoint is is this 6-week
disruption, which seems almost certain,
even if we have a deal today, is it a
6-month disruption, or is it a
several-year disruption? And I think at
this stage, the only thing I'm
comfortable saying about a year or
longer is that there will be a couple
million barrels a day of of production
that are going to be offline. And I
think that before we were thinking that
the medium-term oil price would be
around $60 a barrel. And I think now
we're likely to be looking at something
more like $80 a barrel. And that's
roughly where the futures markets are.
But I think the global economy can grow
nicely with $80 a barrel oil.
Do you think that there's a step change
in the ramifications for the global
economy if the talks this week can break
down? If the ongoing closure of the
Strait of Hormuz continues for several
more months and isn't resolved in the
next couple of weeks.
Uh clearly the markets are pricing in
some kind of a deal in the not too
distant future. If it feels like that
falls apart and and what would worry me
is if uh it does fall apart, then does
the story on the ground and the
intensity of the conflict and the
disruptions associated with the conflict
potentially escalate? Then I think that
uh there could be a sharp non-linear
downside uh for markets as they price in
those those new realities. I think that
as you've said, the market is very much
leaning towards something being
announced uh
likely over at least the next few weeks.
Well, that is a possibility though, cuz
the President Pete Hegseth has spoken
about that. If there's no deal, then
they can go right back to escalation.
What kind of drawdown would we see say
Monday morning if talks truly break down
in Islamabad this weekend if they
happen? It's uh it's it's it's it's
difficult to uh
predict just how adversely the markets
uh would react. We have seen during
periods when the situation looks uh more
severe, the oil price traded 110. And so
if you had a if you had a full break of
these negotiations, to see a pop back up
to $110 a barrel uh seems to me uh a
reasonable hypothesis. Uh but to be
clear, if we have 8 to 10 million
barrels of oil offline for an extended
period, you know, fill in the blank as
to how high oil prices could go. That
could be a world with $150,
a barrel oil. And in some models, I can
even get numbers that are much higher
than that. Nathan, it's good to see you.
Nathan Sheets, Staff City. Thanks for
reacting to that breaking news just
moments ago. Certainly the back of
higher for talks going into the weekend.
Let's get you an update on that story,
that breaking news. With you Bloomberg
Brief, Scarlet Fu has more. Hi, Scarlet.
Hi, John. Yeah, this hour we learn that
the US and Iran are negotiating a peace
plan with one point under discussion,
the US releasing $20 billion in frozen
Iranian funds in return for Iran giving
[music] up its enriched uranium
stockpile. This is according to Axios.
The talks are expected to take place in
Islamabad on Sunday. Meantime, Netflix
shares are lower in the pre-market after
the streamer's second quarter forecast
missed analyst estimates.
>> [music]
>> Netflix also announced that its
co-founder and chairman Reed Hastings
will step down from the board after 29
years.
And SpaceX is moving up its vesting
schedule for employees. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg it could come as
early as next week [music] as the
company prepares for its IPO which, as I
recall, is targeting a valuation of more
than $2 trillion. And that is our
Bloomberg Brief. John.
Scarlet, thank you. Thank you for this
morning. One of the best there, Scarlet
Fu. Up next on the program, [music]
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Jason Thomas of
Carlow. We're still looking for their
third consecutive week of 3% plus gains.
That conversation up next.
The technicals in the equity market are
extraordinary.
>> [music]
>> And the earnings numbers that are coming
through are pretty powerful. You can
have an IPO counter this year that
maybe's a couple hundred billion, maybe.
We're going to buy back a trillion of
stock this year. So, we're actually
There's not enough stock to buy. I mean,
it's amazing in the equity market how we
how good the technicals are.
Rick Rieder of BlackRock there on the
equity market. All-time highs on the S&P
500. And moments ago, another reason for
an increase in stocks this morning.
Equity futures pushing higher on the S&P
500, on the Nasdaq, on the Russell. The
Russell up by 1% for the commodity
market. Crude, [music] Brent, WTI down
by around 6 to 7% at the moment. Bond
yields down across the curve. [music]
The 10-year yield down by six basis
points. Some encouraging signs, not just
from the US side in the reporting from
Axios, [music] but also from the Iranian
side.
>> Just moments ago, the Iranian foreign
minister said in line with the ceasefire
in Lebanon, the passage for all
commercial [music] vehicle vessels
through the Strait of Hormuz is declared
completely open for the remaining period
of the ceasefire. The ceasefire ends
next week. Now, does he mean vessels
that are friendly enough to Iran? Does
he mean Turkey, Pakistan, Russia, China?
Or all commercial vessels? But for
[music] this market, that is definitely
a step in the right direction when it
comes to potentially seeing [music] the
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz.
>> of that headline paired with this story,
the US and Iran negotiating to go for a
three-page plan to end the war. With one
element under [music] discussion being
the US would release 20 billion in
frozen Iranian funds in return for Iran
giving up its stockpile of enriched
uranium. That report, those words coming
directly from Axios earlier this hour.
>> So, we're setting up a really
interesting [music] situation heading
into the weekend of talks potentially on
Sunday between the US and Iran. It seems
like this market has been ripping higher
on the expectation that you would get a
prolonged [music] ceasefire. How much
people who wanted to sit on their hands
heading into the weekend because they
didn't want to get caught off guard for
a Sunday night are being forced into the
market now because of these reports. It
just sort of highlights
everyone's just waiting until all clear
has been announced to get back [music]
to seeing the positives in the earnings
report.
>> We're certainly adding to gains right
now in the equity market, that's for
sure. On reports the US and Iran will be
holding talks in Islam Abad on Sunday,
and maybe some of that energy will start
flowing through the Strait of Hormuz in
a much bigger way. Jason Thomas of
Carlyle writing markets are increasingly
being shaped by national security
priorities. For investors, that means
being selective and leaning into areas
with real demand, pricing power, and
structural tailwinds. Jason joins us now
for more. Jason, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Morning. What a crazy crazy 6-7 weeks
this has been in market? How are you
reflecting on things? Well, I think that
you have three elements as as to why
we've seen this rally. First, of course,
is just this stated willingness to reach
a negotiated settlement. So, keep
getting good news on that front, I would
say. Secondly, the resilience of the
economy. Our portfolio data through 31
days of the conflict, so March 31st,
showed real demand growth in the United
States of 2.7%.
Obviously, good implications for
earnings. So, so I think people have
taken comfort in that. And third, I
think the under-appreciated element here
has been the the way that markets were,
I think, wrong-footed or misapprehended
what was happening in short-term
interest rates.
You had that period of time where people
interpreted the price shock that was
coming as essentially forcing the Fed's
hand to raise rates. That was never the
intention, it was never likely. What
happened during that period of time was
essentially an unwind in some of the
aggressive bets on a Fed that would be
cutting early and often.
At the start of the year, if you looked
at options on futures, seven rate cuts
were priced as equally likely as one
rate hike.
As some of those trades got flushed out,
some of the steeper trades got flushed
out, you had a jump in the two-year
yield, you had a jump in those forward
interest rates.
And and that those trades that that
unwind really came to a conclusion about
March 30th. No surprise that is actually
the the date of the nadir in the in the
recent market. Well, and so this is one
tailwind the recent rally as you've seen
short-end interest rates come down as
people reassess that. I just wonder
longer term though, is there a sense
that people are under-appreciating still
the level of inflation that's going to
be in the system for a long period of
time as we face off with supply shocks
that are more likely going forward?
Well, the Fed has been willing to
tolerate 3% inflation for quite a long
time. What's another 100 basis points
among friends?
So, no, and and I I I So, when you think
about inflation, where where it's likely
going, you have a I would expect a 100
basis point shock in Q2 that's coming,
that's going through the system. But, I
think the expectation is that it's not
continued inflation, it's that prices
will peak and then either stay where
they are or come down somewhat.
And that actually means that sequential
inflation would fall. So again, it's
important to differentiate between the
price level, which will I think remain
high for many key inputs, and we talk
about energy, but this is of course much
broader. When you think about the
nitrogen-based fertilizers that go
through the strait. When you think about
sulfur, obviously sulfuric acid
necessary for metal processing and
refinement. When you think about helium,
you know, that this this where for which
there's no substitute for extreme low
temperature cooling, for semiconductor
manufacturing. All of these inputs
prices are going to there's going to be
shortages in the near term. All these
prices are going to be high, but again,
after June, you have to suspect that the
prices will no longer continue to
escalate. And and so if you have
sequential inflation that that actually
falls, the Fed could be in a position to
cut by September. And and I think that
so again, it's it's a
it's distinguishing between the price
level effects of this conflict, the the
closure of the strait, and and again,
what what we should expect on an ongoing
basis.
Maybe heading into this, people were
asymmetrically pessimistic about the
potential for rate hikes and the
potential for some sort of global
economic shock. Are people overly
optimistic though heading into a weekend
where there's still a lot of vagaries to
potentially be worked through?
Yeah, I I think that you know, again, it
it may just be that that people, you
know, you look at the software the
software space. I mean, that could be a
lot of short covering of course, but
that that was a case where I think
people were far too pessimistic about
the viability of an entire industry. You
know, it was really this the way that
this this Armageddon scenario.
And and you have now obviously this this
rebound of 13% and I think that in some
ways that's the broader market just
overestimating the downside, at least
the likelihood of it. But there is still
tail risk here. There there is a range
of outcomes that we should all
appreciate uh or that that extend into
very, very bad territory. And I think
that we also have not yet seen how
people digest what I do think will be
some bad data in Q2. Just as some of
these effects run their way through the
system. And so how are markets going to
react to that? Are they just going to be
able to look through it? Or are they
going to uh have second thoughts? Let's
work through the price action right now.
We've got Jason Thomas of Carlyle
alongside us. Equities out to session
highs on the S&P. Crude is down by 9%
now on Brent. WTI trading in the mid
80s, down by close to 10% on the
session. We had a report from Axios that
we broke around 8:30 Eastern time
suggesting the US and Iran was
considering a cash-for-uranium deal and
that talks were likely to take place
this coming Sunday. Shortly after that
report dropped, we heard from the
Iranian foreign minister saying the
following. In line with the ceasefire in
Lebanon, the passage for all commercial
vessels through the Strait of Hormuz is
declared completely open for the
remaining period of the ceasefire on the
coordinated route as already announced
by Ports and Maritime Organization of
the Islamic Republic of Iran. That last
line, I think it's really important to
try and get some additional clarity on
what they mean by that. Absolutely.
Devil's in the details here. What kind
of vessels are we talking about? Are
these Iranian vessels? Are these vessels
that are paying a toll? That are close
to the regime? Or these for all
commercial vessels to go in and out of
the Strait of Hormuz? But it is a step
in the right direction and will
certainly be a test for this White House
on what they want to do with this
information going into negotiations on
Sunday.
>> Quite a series of headlines over the
last hour or so driving this equity
market out to new highs. Closing at
record highs yesterday and added some
weight to the rally so far this morning.
Jason, good to see you, sir. Thanks for
being here. Thank you. Come a couple of
Monday reaction to the talks if they
take place over the weekend. We'll speak
to Cameron Dawson of Newedge Wealth,
Claudia Sahm of New Century Advisors,
[music] plus we'll speak to Mark Leman
of Citizens, and Stephen Parker of JP
Morgan. From Washington D.C., thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.